Girls Cross Country Captain Posie Millett Teaches Camaraderie and Kinship on the Course
Luke Boshar 


BOFCXLII
​As the only four-year member of the Andover Girls Cross Country, Captain Posie Millett ’20 leads with an emphasis on unity and companionship. 
According to Millett, she immediately found a source of friendship upon joining the JV team in her Junior year, and has carried those sentiments with her throughout her time in the program.
“Coming [Junior] year, cross country was really a place that I felt an immediate sense of kinship on campus… I think that’s what makes me able to be a good Captain—doing it for the other girls on the team and really knowing that I’m leading for them,” Millett said.
In an effort to cultivate a positive atmosphere, Millett hosts several team bonding activities and gives advice to her teammates when needed, according to Amelia Vinton ’22 and Christina Li ’21. 
“I think what makes Posie such a great captain is her ability to lead and be like an older sister to everyone on the team at the same time. She has a bubbly spirit and is there for you when you need her to be,” said Vinton.
Li added, “Posie also goes out of her way to foster team camaraderie. Twice every day, she is in Lower Right hosting team breakfast and dinner, and during preseason she brought arts and crafts supplies to decorate the girls’ cross country meeting area in Snyder.”
As a leader on the team, Millett makes it a goal of hers to ensure every member of the team feels supported and connected.
Millett said, “I suppose I’m more of a quiet type of leader. I’m not the loudest person in the room, but I think that making sure that I lead by cheering on the last person who’s coming in from the workout, or making sure that everyone gets in from the warmup together, and making sure to talk to other people that I haven’t had the chance to get to know yet [is really important].”
In addition to leading by example, Millett’s lively persona boosts her teammates' morale and motivates them to compete better, according to Li and Head Coach Rebecca Hession.
“She leads practice with her positive attitude and shares her excitement about running with the team. She motivates us to give it our all every day, especially during hard workouts,” said Li.
In an email to The Phillipian, Hession wrote, “Posie’s positive energy is contagious and she has done a fantastic job collaborating with her teammates to lay the groundwork for a strong racing season.”
In addition to her strength in character and as a leader, Millett’s passion for long distance makes her a role model for her teammates, according to Hession.
“Posie’s first race of 2019 demonstrated her strength as a tactical racing. At Bobcat, a very challenging and hilly course, she worked her way up the pack each mile. The patience and confidence to progress over the entire distance is an important asset to the team,” wrote Hession.
Millett priotizes pack-running in practice, a technique she hopes will help advance the team’s overall placement in meets, according to Li and Millett.
Li said, “Posie has been emphasizing pack-running as a team. In this way, we’ll be motivated by our teammates running alongside us, so we’ll run faster and ultimately end up with a lower team score.”
Millett added, “Cross country is a very individual sport. The only way to push yourself past what you think is possible is with the help of your teammates and knowing that your teammates are going to help carry you to the finish line when you don’t think you can do it yourself.”
Andover has taught Millett the importance of supporting her teammates no matter what place they are in. Millett’s constant support and resilience pushes the team to bounce back from any tough situation. 
“I think just knowing that for me last season — I didn’t have the best season in terms of results — and I think that knowing my teammates were there for me to support me no matter how I was doing in the competitions was something really important, and is something that I really try to emanate in my own leadership,” Millett said.
In her last year at Andover, Millett looks to lead the team to a Nepsta Division I title. 
​
EOFCXLII
 
 










































 




Transcription –
 
Posie Millett ’20-
 
Coming freshman year, cross country was really a place that I felt an immediate sense of kinship on campus. I think that committing myself to the team and knowing that no matter what happens, the other girls on the team are going to care for each other and even though cross country is an individual sport, it’s all about working together and really pushing each other for one another’s benefit. I think that what makes me able to be a good captain is doing it for the other girls on the team and really knowing that I’m leading for them.
 
I suppose I’m more of a quiet type of leader. I’m not the loudest person in the room but I think that making sure that I lead by cheering on the last person who’s coming in from the workout or making sure that everyone gets in from the warmup together and making sure to talk to other people that I haven’t had the chance to get to know yet is really something important and it’s something that helps to build the community and the culture of the cross country team
 
I think just knowing that for me last season, I didn’t have the best season in terms of results and I think that knowing my teammates were there for me to support me no matter how I was doing in the competitions was something really important and is something that I really try to emanate in my own leadership. And knowing that how you’re performing, your teammates are not going to judge you for that. It’s really a community where we want to support one another, and we want to get to the bottom of why you might be having a harder week and really caring for each other as people rather than just athletes.
 
I think that I really just try to bring a sense of enthusiasm especially sense running can be really difficult when you’re trying to push yourself up the last hill or the last piece that we’re doing for a certain workout; it’s a really mental sport. I think just knowing that we want to together bring an environment that’s meant to support each and every person on the team. I also have been trying to emphasize the importance of pack running which really helped last season because like I said before, cross-country is a very individual sport. The only way to push yourself past what you think is possible is with the help of your teammates and knowing that your teammates are going to help carry you to the finish line when you don’t think you can do it yourself.
 
I think that I’ve always been fairly good at pacing myself, like not going out of the start too fast. Also, we have this tradition in cross country where whenever you’re passing someone or you’re coming up behind someone who’s on the Andover team, you say “Spark it” because when you’re running you can’t see who’s behind you obviously so they know that it’s a member of their team who’s there to support them and push them ahead. That’s a tradition since before I came to Andover for a very long time. I think that it’s something that really emulates the culture that we want cross country to be like.
 
This weekend, about half the team went to a race on Sunday and the other half of the team didn’t come. But on Saturday, we had a full team practice where some of the newer runners who weren’t coming to the invitational did a workout on the great lawn. The runners who weren’t doing that workout all stayed throughout the entirety of practice to cheer on their teammates and to be a support system. I think just knowing that like I said before, there’s no judgement involved in cross-country and it’s nice because everyone’s invited to join— there are no initial tryouts for JV or Varsity so it’s really a cohesive team and it becomes a place where no matter your experience you’re welcome to run just to run.
 
Amelia Vinton ’22-
 
I think what makes Posie such a great Captain is her ability to lead and be like an older sister to everyone on the team at the same time. She has a bubbly spirit and is there for you when you need her to be.
 
Posie is reliable, kind, bubbly, and supportive
 
Her main goal is always to make sure that everyone is having the best time possible and to take care of them when they are feeling down or when they’re not at their best
 
One thing I love is every day when I see Posie she always brings an energy that’s indescribable, but it tells me that the day is about to get better.
 
Christina Li ’21-
 
Posie is honestly such an amazing person, and the girls’ cross-country team is so lucky to have her as captain. She leads practice with her positive attitude and shares her excitement about running with the team. She motivates us to give it our all every day, especially during hard workouts. She’s also an extremely understanding and supportive person; whenever someone’s not feeling great, she immediately comes over to them and comforts them and makes sure they’re okay. I feel comfortable talking to her about almost everything—as captain, she definitely plays a major part in the team’s support system, and she handles the role wonderfully. Posie’s also a really wholesome person in general; during our first race on Sunday, she made an effort to smile and acknowledge our cheering while she was racing, despite being extremely exhausted. Her positivity also is evident through the goals that she sets for the team: this season, she is encouraging us to smile right after a workout or race, despite how terrible or exhausted you feel, and give high-fives to all of our teammates. Another goal for the season that Posie has been emphasizing is to work on pack-running as a team. In this way, we’ll be motivated by our teammates running alongside us, so we’ll run faster and ultimately end up with a lower team score. Posie also goes out of her way to foster team camaraderie: twice every day, she is in lower right hosting team breakfast and dinner, and during preseason, she brought arts and crafts supplies to decorate the girls’ cross-country meeting area in Snyder. Posie definitely runs smart and efficient races; at our invitational on Sunday, her mile splits were pretty much even, which is deserving of a lot of respect considering that many runners get caught up in the adrenaline of racing and start out too fast and end up fading, which ultimately results in a slower time.
 
Coach Hession-
 
Posie arrived to Andover in 2016 with a love for cross county and teamwork.  As a three-year varsity competitor, she has gained considerable experience in the training process and community building.  Posie’s positive energy is contagious and she has done a fantastic job collaborating with her teammates to lay the groundwork for a strong racing season.  
 
Posie’s first race of 2019 demonstrated her strength as a tactical racing.  At Bobcat, a very challenging and hilly course, she worked her way up the pack each mile.  The patience and confidence to progress over the entire distance is an important asset to the team.