Aphrodite Navab Creates Art Inspired by Andover Scenery During her Therapeutic Time as an Artist-in-Residence
Natalie Chen 


BOFCXLII
On a blank piece of white paper, water with a hint of faint black ink forms a wispy circle. On another piece of paper to the right, the ink making up the circle is darker, with different textures and shades of lines leading to an abstract patterned center. Several similar papers lie side by side, where the black circle eventually transforms into a dark crow, complete with a sharp beak and a similar circular body to the first picture. 
These ink drawings are just eight of the over 50 pieces that Artist-in-Residence Dr. Aphrodite Navab created over the course of one week and showcased last Friday at an Open Studio that was held in Abbot Hall. The event was held in order to give anyone who wanted to see her art an opportunity to get a glimpse behind the scenes of her process and ideas.
These particular eight drawings, which Navab is thinking of calling “Landmines of Memory,” were inspired by the circle of stones next to Gelb Science Center. Navab got her inspiration for all of her art this week from the nature around campus by walking at least six miles every day. Brigitte Leschhorn, Instructor in English, talked about her opinion and interpretation of the paintings.
“I really like them because I really like the idea that a physical space can become something that’s living— can sort of grow bones and feathers and then become something that’s a mixture of both its space and become something that is alive,” said Leschhorn. 
Naveb was visiting Andover as part of the Edward E. Elson Artist-in-Residence program, in which artists from around the world are flown in to Andover to absorb the culture of campus and work on pieces inspired by the school.
Jamie Gibbons, Head of Education at the Addison, said, “There is no set program... so it can really vary depending on how much time that artist has available, but also what they’re interested in doing. Though they always in some way work with an audience—sometimes they meet with classes [on campus], sometimes they meet with classes from off-campus.”
Navab decided to accept the Artist-in-Residence invitation for her oldest brother Alexander Navab ’93, who recently passed away this summer and was featured in the exhibit “Men of Steel, Women of Wonder,” which recently opened at the Addison. 
“I just lost my brother, and he went to Andover. He died in July, and they contacted me in August, so they didn’t know, and I said any work of art that I do here would be in honor and memory of my big brother. They were so happy and excited to have this coincidence and this opportunity, and so was I. For me it’s been very healing, therapeutic— it’s also as a little sister sort of retracing the steps of her big brother who inspired me in so many ways,” said Navab. 
Navab’s time walking around Andover served as both the inspiration behind the over fifty pieces she created, and also contributed to a feeling of healing and serenity.
“I have to say the most inspiring aspects have been really walking and enjoying Andover, coming with my history and my other series, and then noticing things in the landscape because it’s been meditative. The work I’m doing is also quite meditative, even the walking I do is mirrored in the circles I’m drawing and the way I’m going round—I went round and round this campus—physically, viscerally, psychologically, spiritually, emotionally, and artistically, those have been the most significant influences,” said Navab. 
EOFCXLII






































Jamie Gibbons


Q: Can you introduce yourself.
A: I am Jamie Gibbons. I’m the head of education at the Addison Gallery of American Art.


Q: Can you tell me what an artist-in-residence is?
A: Sure. We have a program through the museum called the Edward E. Elson Artist-in-Residence program through which we can invite artists to campus. We generally have maybe 3 artists in residence each year, but sometimes it can be 1, sometimes it can be 2, it really depends on what the exhibitions are and it’s a program that’s by invitation only so a lot of times we reach out to artists who are part of current exhibitions or artists who may be working with us at some point in the future. There is no set program - it is not that an artist in residence comes to campus and does this particular thing. So it can really vary depending on how much time that artist has available, but also what they’re interested in doing. Though they always in some way work with an audience - sometimes they meet with classes (Phillips Academy classes), sometimes they meet with classes from off-campus. They always make work while they’re here. Sometimes that work in some way involves the public - sometimes they will incorporate student voices into their work or we’ve had artists who are photographers who use students as models. So it really varies. Sometimes they give artist talks. In that way, we’re not only supporting the educational mission of the museum, because the Addison Gallery is a teaching museum, but we’re also supporting contemporary art and giving a platform to artists to support the making of their work right now. 


Q: Can you tell me what the event tonight is for?
A: Aphrodite Navab has been here on campus for the week. She arrived I think on Sunday , or it might have been Monday, and she has been here the whole week. On Monday, she went to Lowell High School and then Tuesday she met with Phillips Academy classes, Wednesday Lowell High School came to the Addison, Wednesday night she gave a gallery talk, all day Thursday she was meeting with Phillips Academy classes. But in her free time while she’s here, which we didn’t leave her very much of, she’s been making work. Tonight is an opportunity for either those who have met with her during the week or those who were not able to meet with her during the week to come and see what she’s been working on and get a glimpse behind the scenes at her process, at her ideas, at her inspiration. I know that some of her inspiration came from being here on campus. 


Q: What stood out to you about Aphrodite to invite her to be an artist in residence?
A: Her work is really interesting in this question of having a duality of identities and the way in which our identities are histories all kind of speak to each other. So she is Greek-Iranian and the way in which each of those histories had histories with each other, she’s interested in questions of access and freedom and identity and just really thinking about how to find a variety of methods for expressing those ideas. We thought that was something students would really connect with.


A: I’m going to let Aphrodite talk about her work. It’s not something that I think I can represent, but I know that she’s been very inspired during her work here on campus. She created all of the works on the table in the box over there.  


Brigitte Leschhorn


Q: Could you tell me why you decided to come to the event tonight?
A: Dr. Navab worked with my 2, 300 classes in English and I just found especially, because we’re reading The Metamorphosis, she showed us this piece she did on the same author, Kafka, but on a short story (The Hunger Artist), and how she then related it to another Iranian artist and it’s just really interesting to see the mixture between the sort of West and Middle East where she comes from and that was a really good experience and I wanted to see what she had been doing while she was here.


Q: What is your impression of the art that she’s created?
A: I think it is kind of what she has already said it’s all about, that idea of dyaspora, an idea which appeals to me because I’m an immigrant, of leaving home, of having to leave home and then sort of having to find your place somewhere else, that you do get transformed by things like the language, you do get transformed by the new culture, by really the new location, the geography and environment itself is transformative.


Q: What do you think about the amount of work that she’s created while she was here
A: She’s super productive, but what she’s said about this almost being like a ritual part of remembering her brother who died this past summer, that sometimes that can be a way of releasing so much but also kind of remembering the experience and so for me that would make sense, that as an artist you would have all this content wanting to come out, all of these memories, all of these feelings, all of these things to process. 


Q: What do you think about the specific 8 pictures that she showed? 
A: I really like it because I really like the idea that a physical space can become something that’s living, can sort of grow bones and feathers and then become something that’s a mixture of both it’s space and sort of it’s alive now. 


Aphrodite Navab


Q: Can you tell me how your experience of being an artist in residence has been so far?
A: I came with no expectations and when you do that, you get pleasantly surprised by all the things that do happen that are positive, so I came very excited because I’m already in the group exhibition at the Addison Gallery of American Art and I befriended the senior curator, Ally, Allison Kemmerer, and the head of education Jame Gibbons so we were already talking on the phone and emailing each other. I already had a good feeling about coming here and my eldest brother came to high school here from 1980 to 1983, he graduated and went off to Columbia and Harvard Business School and he’s my big brother Alex, Alexander Navab. I loved  him deeply, dearly so it just coincided that I was in a group show that traveled from Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art then to San Antonio Museum of Fine Art and then the final stop is Addison Gallery of American Art. I didn’t know anything about Addison. I didn’t even know it was connection to Andover and so when they contacted me interested in having me up at the gallery during the length of the show, I was just like, “you know, I just lost my brother and he went to Andover” and he died in July and they contacted me in August so they didn’t know and I said “any work of art that I do here would be in honor and memory of my big brother” and they were so happy and excited to have this coincidence and this opportunity and so was I. For me it’s been very healing, therapeutic, it’s also as a little sister sort of retracing the steps of her big brother who inspired me in so many ways. When he went to college, I was like I want to go to college and I went to Harvard and when I started at Harvard, he started at Harvard Business School. We were 6 years apart and he was in graduate school and I was in undergrad and we started in 1989 at Harvard together but he was my big brother at the business school and i was and the college. That’s where i fell in love with art, and I majored in in art, so it was a big awakening for me at Harvard College. When I did the public lecture at the Addison Gallery on Wednesday, my former Harvard professor, Rosamond Purcell came with her husband, so it was like a full circle where I had come to my brother’s high school, I had come to a traveling museum show that I had been in that i loved, and then my former professor from Harvard comes with her husband to see me and my public talk I was a little student in her class at Harvard in 1990-91 I think, and so it was like coming full circle. And then as I was talking to the students at the different courses at Andover  and then walking the campus, I discovered certain things that really moved me like the bird sanctuary  and the stone, the sculptural meeting circle for students and classes and teachers, all of that inspired me in my ink drawings and then I came up with over 50 ink drawings that will be at the Addison Gallery next year exhibited as part of the result of my artist in residency here. That’s just been a rewarding and deeply meaningful experience.


Q: Did you expect to produce such a mass volume of work?
A: No, I thought I was going to be a little sad. I thought I was going to miss my brother a lot and imagine him eating at Commons, which I did. And sometimes I would see a 15 year old and I would think that could be my brother. But at the same time it was so healing and I have very happy memories of him and he’s been such a source of inspiration for me that being here was healing and i feel it inspired me to have a lot of ideas and and interaction with Andover, specifically, and also the art I was already working on before I came here and the museum itself, the people I’ve been meeting and some of themes that i explored in my super east-west women series on display at the Addison is what I’m exploring in my ink drawing, but it’s through ink and it’s abstracted.


Q: Is it purposeful that you use a black ink? Do you always use black ink?
A: It’s interesting that my photography is mostly color, but my drawings are about the unconscious and memory so I think I go from color and representational in photography, even though it’s performance-based and its not documentary work and i set up a scene, and i act in it and i direct it, even though it’s fictional, it’s still very representational, it’s very realistic and it’s color like the real world. When I work in ink and in ink drawings, I am working with the unconscious, I am working with memories, I am working with abstract ideas, I turn concrete stories and themes and issues into abstract ones so I definitely rely on grey, black, white and the fluidity of ink drawing medium.


Q: I know you mentioned a lot of the art you made here was inspired by you walking around, but is any of it inspired by the classes you taught, or students in the classes?
A: Unfortunately, I didn’t have enough contact hours. I definitely saw people every day, but it wasn’t enough and I really enjoyed my time here. I didn’t spend enough time. It was just a week sometimes I met only 1 class only 1 hour, but I feel like if I were here longer, like a month, definitely in the past when I was teaching 5 years at the University of Florida, my BFA and MFA student inspired me and I inspired them and shared things with them.  It was something that was mutual and really beneficial. But I would need longer, so honestly I have to say the most inspiring aspects has been really walking and enjoying Andover, coming with my history and my other series and then noticing things in the landscape because it’s been meditative and the work I’m doing is quite meditative even the walking I do is mirrored in the circles I’m drawing and the way I’m going round - I went round and round this campus - physically, viscerally, psychologically, spiritually, emotionally and artistically - those have been the most significant influences. If I had been here longer, I know the way I am as a teacher, I love the cross-fertilization that happens between teacher and students and the walls break down and you inspire each other, but it’s only been really 4 days - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - every day I did some teaching to Lowell High School students who were fantastic and Andover, so its 4 days. Today was this and looking at the archive on my brother. That’s about it.


Q: Do these series of images have a title?
A I don’t know yet but I think I’m going to call it Landmines of Memory and in it, in these landmines of memory in it you know landmines can be a very violent thing, they can explode, they can maim you or destroy you. But I see it as psychological landmines, like this area is painful in your memory. This landmine that you step on, it explodes with beauty and it can be positive and not just negative and you have these pockets of memory and its full of ideas and experiences, so I was thinking that my experience here could be the way i’m walking through these landmines in memory of my brother, but also i’m exploring greek mythology, persian folklore and what I discovered on andover campus, too. And these this is very much the nature of drawing because drawing is that line from past to present to future. And you can imagine a different future and through art you can do that and you can kind of present that or offer that suggest that or invite the world to kind of see the possibilities of a different future. So I could be walking on landmines in my memory, but what does it mean about the present and about the future? So for me I hope to get people to think we’re all coming with some deep personal past things and memories, but hopefully as a community we can talk about it, discuss it, unpack it and allow it to breathe and then also be really constructive and healthy and creative and maybe imagine something different.


Q: Do you think your experience here will inspire you for work in the future? 
A: I really think so. So it’s something I really notice that 2 series of mine merge into a new series. So I already worked on a small scale on the patient’s stone for another show I was already labyrinth for another show. I’ completed small ink drawing that I was happy with  but here they collided and merged and became something different. They definitely look different they feel different and it’s not just the scale it’s my experimentation.