Feature: Student Activities Director Christopher Capano Collaborates with Student Activities 
Natalie Chen and Noemi Elliott 


BOFCXLII
Christopher Capano, Director of Student Activities, has been working in the Student Activities Office (STACT) since the fall of 2010. A notable contributor to Andover student culture, Capano is in charge of planning weekend activities alongside the STACT student board. 
During weekly meetings, Capano and the board work together to plan possible future events and reflect on the successes and failures of past ones. One of the board members, Eliza Dow ’22, detailed how Capano maintains a friendly environment where students are safe to express their opinions. 
“Mr. Capano is very receptive to hearing the students’ opinions. Students have a lot of freedom with the opinions and the ideas we come up with… Everybody on the board has a lot of good ideas, but they are also very nice and respectful. We listen to each other’s opinions and come up with our own ideas, and add onto each other,” said Dow. 
Capano varies the activities he plans year to year, depending on the tastes of the student body. This year, the STACT board will focus on planning more field trips. He asserted that Student Activities will hopefully plan more off-campus events, such as Boston trips, a trip to Salem for Halloween, or more shopping and beach trips.
“I think we need to give people something to do. Students here work really hard, they have tons of homework, they take hard classes, and are really into sports. We have awesome students, so I think we need to give them a fun, safe outlet to do some stuff on the weekends and blow off steam while having fun. My goal is that our events are fun and well-attended,” said Capano. 
According to Capano, his favorite events are ones where the student body showcase their many talents, such as Coffeehouse and Open Mic Night. Another board member, Su Chermayeff ’21,  added that Capano also attends many of the events he plans, both to chaperone and to spend time with students. 
“Mr. Capano plays a pivotal role in student activities. He is at every meeting and is there for every activity that we plan. Yesterday during the mall trip, he was there and made sure that we were all ok, safe, and having fun. Mr. Capano is so kind and never hesitates to join in on the fun activities that we plan,” said Chermayeff.  
STACT board member Kam Saalfrank ’21 asserted that Capano’s easy-going personality plays a big role in his ability to plan entertaining events. Saalfrank elaborated on this by explaining that Capano is genuinely interested in how students are doing and wants to get to know them.
“I think that he has a desire to get students out of their dorms and doing something fun on Friday and Saturday nights, and what exactly that is comes from his lively personality. He has a good sense of how to balance weekend activities so it doesn’t feel like the only thing happening over the course of a month are dances every single weekend or off-campus trips every single weekend,” said Saalfrank.
One part of the job for Christopher Capano, Director of Student Activities, is welcoming the newly chosen Blue Key Heads in his home, Burtt House. According to Blue Key Head and Student Activities (STACT) board member Jed Heald ’20, being selected as a Blue Key Head was a special moment for him, and one that he was happy to share with Capano. 
“My favorite memory with Mr. Capano was last spring when I became a Blue Key Head…  Capano always brings high energy and thoughtful ideas to [STACT] meetings each week. [He] is the best when it comes to planning activities each and every week and we wouldn’t want to do it with anybody else. Capano is always on top of his game with scheduling and helping us bring the ideas we have in meetings to fruition and carrying them out,” said Heald.
EOFCXLII         










































Interview with Mr. Capano


“Our office is the Student Activities office. I am the director of student activities and Steph is the assistant director. We basically try to plan events every Friday and Saturday. Our goal is to plan Friday and Saturday night events for the entire campus. There is already athletics, theater, dance, and music, so we try to plan events outside of those things, so dances, movie showings, field trips. We also try to bring in outside performers, such as comedians and hypnotists, and mentalists. 


“I started working here in the fall of 2000, but I started in student activities in the fall of 2010. Student activities has probably been here since the school has. I think when I first started, the only idea for events was to have dances all the time. Everyone complained that the dances were boring and occurred too often because they happened every single week. We started bringing in outside events, and bringing in performers, or holding a bingo or acapella night, or coffeehouses. There were some of those before but we do a lot more now.


“I like seeing events when our students show off their talents. When we have a live band karaoke or coffeehouse, or any events where our students are the star of the show is always fun to watch. We have so many talented people, whether it's singers, dancers, or musicians. One of our first coffeehouses, a young lady came to us. She was a new ninth-grader, so she was very timid, and she wanted to play the violin. We had never had a violinist play coffeehouse before, it's usually singer-songwriters or pianists. This was about five years ago, so she's graduated by now. We weren't sure people would get it, and she was an amazing violin player. She got up there and did her thing and when she finished, she got a standing ovation which was amazing.


“I think we need to give people something to do. Students here work really hard, they have tons of homework, they take hard classes, are really into sports. We have awesome students, so I think we need to give them a fun, safe outlet to do some stuff on the weekends and blow off steam while having fun. My goal is that our events are fun and well-attended. 


“We have a Student Activities board and Ms. Cormier and I talk about what new things we can do and new ideas everyday. We remember what's happening in years past, and we take notes on what worked and what didn't. Once a term, we meet up with all the other student activity directors from other private schools in the area and ask what went well, what did you do new that worked or didn't, and we try out new ideas.


“It seems like this year's group of students are more interested in field trips, so we might do more off campus stuff. We might go to Boston, or go to Salem for the Halloween stuff, or shopping or beach trips. It feels like this group wants to get off campus more. 


“We have about a dozen members on the student activities board, spread over seniors, uppers, and lowers. We try to add some ninth-graders after they get used to going to school here. We meet once a week. We talk about how the previous event went and make suggestions for how to make it better the next time we do it. We also talk about our ideas for the weekend. Part of the board's job is setting up the event, so moving chairs or lights, putting up decorations. We assign our jobs for the week and look ahead at what we might do for the next week.


“We try to the board diverse. Meaning, not just different grades but also different types of kids. There are kids who like dancing, kids who want more performers, kids who want more field trips. When we do our application, we ask them what ideas they have. If they have a lot of good ideas, we'll bring them in. We really want kids who are willing to say something. We don't want people who get shy or don't want to talk; we want people who are willing to throw ideas out there and talk about whether it would work and what we have to do to make it happen.


“I think working with our students is probably the best part of my job. I am a house counselor, and I also coach a sport. Interacting with the students, you guys is fun. I enjoy interacting with all our students. There are always kids from around the world with different talents and ideas. Kids come to us with suggestions that I never would have thought of, and when we do them, they're fun and it works out well. We love hearing from kids, and some of our bests stem from when students drop by my office and suggest something. If we can make it happen, we try to. 






The girl was Angela tang ‘16 


Eliza Dow


Q: Can you describe what it’s been like being on the Stact Board so far?
A: It’s actually been really great. Everybody in there has a lot of good ideas, but also very nice and respectful. We give each other’s opinions and recognize and come up with ideas and add onto each other and that’s been really successful and we have some really good ideas coming up.


Q: What are the meetings typically like?
A: We meet on Mondays after dinner and we sit in the student activities office and Ms. Cormier will give us the rundown of the general things that are happening for each weekend in the upcoming month and the big things on both Friday and Saturday, that’s usually what the students do. We come up with the ideas for the big, main event that’s supposed to happen on that Friday or that Saturday. For example, this weekend there was Scream Fest and the open mic night.


Q: How is the collaborative process between you, the students, and Ms. Cormier and Mr. Capano?
A: It’s Ms. Cormier usually running the meetings, but Mr. Capano does all of the behind the scenes work along with her and she usually has everything else set up except for the main things that we’re discussing, because they have the student activities office, Mr. Capano and Ms. Cormier have a lot under control, but I believe it’s important that they get a student’s opinion, multiple students’ opinions from different grades, different genders, all that helps make it the best, especially for the main events to attract the most people and all that.


Q: Are they very receptive to hearing all the students’ opinions?
A: They are very receptive to hearing the students’ opinions. Students have a lot of freedom with the opinions and the ideas we come up with and then Ms. Cormier would shut them down if either we can’t pay for it or if it’s unsafe or something like that or it wasn’t successful in the past. For example, when the dances moved from Gelb to Commons because all the glass broke even though it was super fun, we can’t do it again even though people want to. 


Delaney Arkell


Q: So what do you guys meet about every week for the STACT board?
A: So we meet to discuss the upcoming events usually for the month or the week and if we have open time slots we don’t know what to do we’ll kind of brainstorm ideas and figure out what event we want to put in there or we will sometimes go ahead to the months before and try to figure out ideas for dances that we’d like to put on or just really we brainstorm a lot and we try to figure out sometimes this week we had to figure out we were selling tickets for screen fest we organized that. It’s mostly organization planning ahead.


Q: How involved are mr capano and ms cormier in the whole process? 
A: They're super involved. Our entire meeting is usually talking with ms cormier and mr capano about the different ideas and logistics of how they’ll be put on and they’re really the people pulling the strings behind the scenes . they just make everything run. 


Q: So how do you guys work together do they ask you guys for ideas or what.
A:  Mm hmm. Yeah it’s mostly they really do a good job of kind of letting go of control and letting the students and everyone on stacked really  take control and really have our own ideas and kind of brainstorm them out and see how it would work logistically and figure out whether or not an event would be a good idea to put on. And I think thats perfect because they give the students enough room to brainstorm and we all get to collaborate in a way thats very open and it’s fun.


Jed Heald ’20


“My favorite memory with Mr. Capano was last spring when I became a Blue Key Head. We were taken into Burtt House, where he lives, and took our blindfolds off and he walked right in afterwards and we just smiled. It was a special moment for all of us. Capano always brings high energy and thoughtful ideas to our meetings each week. Him and Ms. Cormier are the best when it comes to planning activities each and every week and we wouldn’t want to do it with anybody else. Capano is always on top of his game with scheduling and helping us bring the ideas we have in meetings to fruition and carrying them out.


Kam Saalfrank ’21


Mr. Capano and Ms Cormier are very easygoing and fun people to be around. They are genuinely interested in how you’re doing and getting to know you, if you ever get the chance to talk to either of them definitely do so! Ms. Cormier (Steph to those that know her) is my ultimate coach so I get to spend a lot of time with her, but some of my favorite memories with the two are from Coffee House audition this fall. Auditions are scheduled 10 minutes apart and last for about a minute, so there’s a lot of downtime in between acts. When I was watching, there was like 3 acts in a row that didn’t show up, so I ended up talking to Steph and Mr. Capano for a half hour and got to know them a lot better.


“One big thing I learned lower year was that Mr. Capano grew up down the street from my dad, and that my dad had Steph as a student in middle school. I also learned Steph lives on a farm and rides horses frequently. 


“I think that they have a desire to get students out of their dorms and doing something fun on Friday and Saturday nights, and what exactly that is comes from their lively personalities. They have a good sense of how to balance weekend activities so it doesn’t feel like the only thing happening over the course of a month are dances every single weekend or off campus trips every single weekend. 


Emily Mae Murtha ’22


“All my memories of Mr. Capano when we have meetings is him being super knowledgeable about everything we do. If you have any questions related to his area of expertise, you know you’ll get a response to it. He’s so useful and has so much information about everything that goes on in this school. I got an Abbot Grant for a club called Scribbles, which is a new club this year, I went to him very often with questions and he helped me out so much. He knows so much about the process and explains it in a way so that it’s not overly complicated. He’s really direct with you, and he keeps it very real and tells you what you need to do, and he’s super helpful in that way. 


“My favorite memory of Mr. Capano is probably chilling with him in the Student Activities office for meetings and talking. The meetings are always so fun and casual, and it’s such a great experience. I don’t feel like I’m obligated to be there in any sort of way.  




Su Chermayeff ’21


“Mr. Capano plays a pivotal role in student activities. He is at every meeting and is there for every activity that we plan. Yesterday during the mall trip he was there and made sure that we were all ok, safe, and having fun. Mr. Capano is so kind and never hesitates to join in on the fun activities that we plan.”