Open Mic Night Meets Lip Sync Battle Features Spontaneous Performances in Light-Hearted Fun


BOFCXLII
With a squash racket in hand, Charlotte Whitehurst ’22 strummed her fingers against her makeshift guitar to the beat of “Love Story” by Taylor Swift as Ash Cohan ’20 held a microphone. Throughout their performance, Whitehurst and Cohan lip-synced lyrics of the song. When Swift sang “marry me Juliet,” Whitehurst got down on one knee and acted out a marriage proposal as the audience cheered and laughed. 
This past Saturday evening, Open Mic Night Meets Lip Sync Battle was held in Susie’s, with acts ranging from spontaneous lip-syncing to a prepared piano solo. Audience member Nick Gibeley ’22 said, “I absolutely loved [Whitehurst and Cohan’s] performance. “Love Story” is such a great throwback song to our childhoods, and I also loved how Charlotte used the racket as a guitar as it brought both a carefree and lighthearted mood to the evening.”
The two emcees, Lilly Feeney ’20 and Hywot Ayana ’20, shuffled around Susie’s, encouraging students to perform impromptu and announcing participants. Ayana, alongside partner Chioma Ugwonali ’20, was the first to take the stage, lip syncing to “Truth Hurts” by Lizzo.
Ayana said, “I chose to participate because I wanted to get other people involved. Getting up on stage and performing in front of your peers can be hard, so I wanted to go first to at least break that ice. I'm not good at singing or dancing, but I wanted to help make other people feel more comfortable getting on stage.”
The second act of the night, featuring Amelia Meyer ’21 and her prefectees Zadie Rutty-Turner ’23 and Aleena Kibria ’23, took to the stage wearing colorful sunglasses as Meyer moonwalked across the stage while lip syncing to “All I Want For Christmas Is You” by Mariah Carey.
Meyer said, “Our dorm, Draper [Cottage], had a collective dorm performance tonight. Every single night, we end up screaming and dancing, and “All I Want For Christmas” is one of our favorites. Tonight’s [lip syncing battle was] a great way to show dorm spirit and de-stress. Dance and music are so powerful and there’s a lot of humor with it.”
Emma Jing ’22 and Emily Smith ’22 lip-synced to “Breaking Free” from High School Musical. While dancing around the stage, the audience turned their phone flashlights on and waved them back and forth. According to Jing, their song choice was spontaneous and fun.
“We chose [‘Breaking Free’] as a throwback to our childhoods. We all watched ‘High School Musical’ when we were younger, so we wanted a song we both knew and that the crowd could sing along to and enjoy,” said Jing. “Be brave and go up there, because no one’s going to make fun of your performance, so you should enjoy yourself a little and bring a friend if you feel really nervous.” 
EOFCXLII
































































Interviews: 


Amelia Meyer ’21 (performed alongside Zadie Rutty-Turner ’23 and Aleena Kibria ’23)


“All I Want for Christmas is You is a really important song in our dorm. Our dorm, Draper, had a collective dorm performance tonight. Every single night, we end up screaming and dancing and this song is one of our favorites. This is a great way to show dorm spirit and de-stress. Dance and music are so powerful and there's a lot of humor with it.


“Kylie and Katie really knocked it out of the part. The dance moves, the vocals were all there. This is so much fun. When everybody comes together for little events like this, especially because it's student-run, it's so cool. In any other school, these types of events are not held. Hywot and Lilly are running this.


“I do a lot of random performances around campus because my life is just showbusiness baby. 


Lilly Feeney ’20


“Mr. Capano needed someone to MC so Hywot volunteered and I happened to be there so I helped her out. I just announce who goes up and try to encourage people to go. The purpose of the event I think is to give people a chance to perform if they wanted like Ethan or just have fun in a lip sync battle. 


Charlotte Whitehurst ’22


“I performed Love Story by Taylor Swift with Ashely. One of the coordinators asked us to step up, and we had a lot of fun. The song was chosen for me. I really loved Emily Smith and Emma Jing's performance. It was very engaging, they connected with the crowd well, and you could tell they were really into it. They were very passionate about their performance and they had a lot of emotions because they have an emotional connection to the song. 


“There are very few people here, so there are very low stakes and everyone's friends. 


“I would tell them that you can't see anyone here anyway because the lights are too bright, so you should just do it. 


“It was really fun on stage; Ashley was a great partner and I love the song. 


“I used a squash racket which Amelia gave me as a guitar and microphone. I tried to make eye contact while I was onstage. When she sang 'Marry me Juliet', we acted out a full proposal. That was very good. 


Charlotte Whitehurrst ’22, Emma Jing ’22, and Emily Smith ’22


Charlotte: “Emily and Emma were my favorite act. I think that they had a real connection on stage, and you could see the emotion in their eyes and heart. Music is the language of the soul. 


Emma: “We sang Breaking Free from High School Musical. We really wanted to do a duet number. I thought it was a really unifying moment. I was Troy and Emily was Gabriella, and I feel like it's very representative of our relationship. 


Emma: “Be brave and go up there, because no one’s going to make fun of your performance, so you should enjoy yourself a little and bring a friend if you feel really nervous. It was really fun on stage and I didn't' feel nervous at all. The crowd was singing along, and they had their flashlights on. 


Emily: “We chose the song as a throwback to our childhoods. We all watched High School Musical when we were younger so we wanted a song we both knew and that the crowd could sing along to and enjoy. 


Emma: “I really liked it when Draper Drip did their act. It was prefect and prefectees, and I could tell that this was a great bonding opportunity for them and they are a very close dorm. 


Emily: “The song choice really made me feel the feels for Christmas pop. 


Hywot Ayana ’20


"We chose Truth Hurts by Lizzo because she's amazing, and I aspire to live like her every day. I chose to participate because I wanted to get other people involved. Getting up on stage and performing in front of your peers can be hard, so I wanted to go first to at least break that ice. I'm not good at singing or dancing, but I wanted to help make other people feel more comfortable getting on stage. I also love the song a lot. 


Chioma Ugwonali ’20


“Hywot mentioned that she may be hosting earlier today and that she'd probably have to do an example for the crowd. I didn't want her to go by herself, so I offered to do a duet with her because she's my friend. 


“It was a little awkward on stage. I'm used to awkward situations, so it's all good. It was nice to just be goofy, and I like to have fun. At first, I offered Old Town Road as an option to Hywot, but then she suggested we do a Lizzo song. Truth Hurts is a pretty popular song right now, so hopefully, it got the crowd more excited about lip singing night. 


Nick Gibeley ’22


“I really liked when they sang Love Story by Taylor Swift, because they had a lot of energy. It's a fun song that everyone knows from when they were younger, so everyone in the den was singing along to it. It was also really funny when Amelia gave Charlotte a racket and she used it as a guitar. Both performers had a lot of energy and were very entertaining to watch. 


“I really liked it when they sang Soarin from High School Musical. I used to watch that movie a lot with my siblings when I was really little, so it reminded me of them. The whole audience knew it too, so it was fun to listen to everyone singing along. I think that at Andover, you can get stuck in the work mentality, so it's nice to listen to songs from when you were young and explore your past.