Co-Captain David Wang ’20 is the “Glue that Brings Us All Together”


BOFCXLII
Playing competitive club soccer since the age of 12, Co-Captain David Wang ’20 joined Andover Boys Soccer as a new Upper and was voted Co-Captain after just one year on the team.
“I started playing soccer when I was six years old and it began just as a Sunday gathering with people in my neighborhood. At a young age I think I was pretty good at the sport even though I wasn’t that technical. I was quite fast, so it made me want to continue. My parents saw my potential and pushed me into a more competitive league. I continued playing without complaints and the more I did, I began to really enjoy the sport,” said Wang. 
According to Head Coach Edwin Escobar and Co-Captain Connor Ding ’20, upon coming to the team, Wang instantly found his place and displayed leadership through his work ethic and dedication.
“When David came to the team, right off the bat you knew that he was going to be a Captain his Senior year. His work rate is absolutely one of the best that I have seen in my time working here. I think that it was quite evident and I don’t think it was a surprise for anybody that was voted Captain just because he was so motivated and determined when he came in,” said Escobar. 
Ding said, “He has a really good work ethic and always shows up to practices ready to give it his all. I think David really adapted to the team very quickly and I don’t think of him as a one-year player. It seems like he’s been here the whole time. He’s really fun to work with and I think he really showed last season why he deserved to be Captain.”
As both a skilled player and communicator on the field, Wang’s athleticism has led him to be crucial to the team’s success, according to Alan Fang ’21 and Escobar.
“I think David brings the team together just by constantly talking and giving directions in games and matches. You can always hear him on the field and [he] will always be saying something to help us improve. In practice we play a lot of scrimmages and David will be communicating to both teams even though we are competing, he gives direction to both sides. He is constantly talking, always communicating, and lets us know what we need to do,” said Fang. 
Escobar said, “David is a very gifted athlete and he is also very skilled. I would say he is our most skilled player on the field and while he is all that, he is one of the most humble guys that you can find out there on the field.”
Wang’s presence both on and off the field is key to the team’s bond, according to Ethan Hong ’22 and Escobar.
“David is definitely a people person which really helps the team’s chemistry as a whole. He plays a major part in the team and really is the glue that brings us all together,” said Hong.
Escobar added, “There are a lot of things that go on off the field, and I think he is now a lot more aware of that and now is a lot more aware of the different personalities that are on the team and what kind of leader he needs to be to connect with everyone.”
According to Wang, being Captain has been rewarding, as he strives to lead by example in both practices and games.
“It is always nice to represent your school and especially being the Captain of the Varsity team this year, it is great to be able to lead a pretty competitive team. It was really rewarding that my teammates respected my hard work, passion, and talent for the game,” said Wang.
Wang hopes the team will be able to reach the Nepsac playoffs and perform to the best of its ability.
Wang said, “I hope to make the playoffs this year, just like it is the goal for many other teams, and to just keep pushing, because I think we have a good chance of performing really well this year in the championships, given the way we have been playing.” 
EOFCXLII














TRANSCRIPTIONS
David Wang ’20
I started playing soccer when I was 6 years old and it began just as a Sunday gathering with people in my neighbourhood. We would have small games and matches which was really cool and got me into the sport. At a young age I think I was pretty good at the sport even though I wasn’t that technical, I was quite fast so it made me want to continue. My parents saw my potential and just pushed me into a more competitive league. I don’t remember asking to be put into a higher level but out of the blue I was signed up for travel soccer. I continued playing without complaints and the more I did, I began to really enjoy the sport. I am really glad my parents made me take the jump and I think soccer has really shaped large aspects of my life. Athletically and socially, I grew a lot as a person as a result of the game. Coming into Andover, coach Escobar has helped me become the player that I want to be as a leader on the field. I would also like to thank one of my old coaches, coach Bill, back home in North Carolina, who really shaped my development to be the player that I am today. It is always nice to represent your school and especially being the captain of the varsity team this year, it is great to be able to lead a pretty competitive team to wins and hopefully into playoffs this year. As a new upper, it was nice to see how people respected me even though I was a new player on the team. It was really rewarding that my teammates respected my hard work, passion, and talent for the game. I always want to keep the intensity high during practices and try to lead by example through hard work and listening to what the coach says, even if it’s a boring or super hard drill. I try to motivate my teammates to do the same without complaints and tell them just to put 110% to keep getting better. I hope to make the playoffs this year, just like it is the goal for many other teams, and to just keep pushing because I think we have a good chance of performing really well this year in the championships given the way we have been playing. What I like about the soccer team here, is that given that we go to a boarding school, it is nice to see your teammates out of practice and around campus just see your friends. 


Connor Ding ’20
David is one of our best players on the team so he is definitely good at leading the team on the field and he also creates a very welcoming environment for all the players. He is extremely approachable, easy to talk to, and just fun to be around in practice and off the field. It is great being co-captains with him, since we both have the same goals and motivation during practices so it has been fun working with him. As a player, David is really good at winning the ball back defensively and getting our offense started from midfield. I feel that all the younger players on the team really look up to him given that he really embodies the saying, leading by example. He has a really good work ethic and always shows up to practices ready to give it his all. I think David really adapted to the team very quickly and I don’t think of him as a one year player but it seems like he’s been here the whole time. He’s really fun to work with and I think he really showed last season why he deserved to be captain. Our number one goal for this season is to make the playoffs, the past two years, we haven’t been able to make it so that’s our main focus this year. 


Ethan Hong ’22
I think David is a great leader to everyone on the team and he not only inspires us with words but through his actions. As a player, he is very physical and that motivates all of us to play harder and put even more effort into every game and play. David is definitely a people person which really helps the team’s chemistry as a whole. He plays a major part in the team and really is the glue that brings us all together. In practice, he motivates us to play like it is the game and just be better everyday. I think David is an amazing captain and pushes us to give it our all each time we step on the field.


Coach - Edwin Escobar
As a player on the team, David is a very gifted athlete and he is also very skilled. I would say he is our most skilled player on the field and while he is all that, he is one of the most humble guys that you can find out there on the field. He encourages others to continue to work hard and really motivates everyone that is around him. He is a big part of that puzzle and is very important to our team. When David came to the team, right off the bat you knew that he was going to be captain his senior year. His work rate is absolutely one of the best that I have seen in my time working here. I think that it was quite evident and I don’t think it was a surprise for anybody that was voted captain just because he was so motivated and determined when he came in. David came in very set with what he wanted from this experience and he continues to work at a very high level and I think that has what led to him being selected as captain. If you go out to the field and watch him play, I think anybody would be like, I see why he was voted captain. I think the nice thing about David is that he helps others be better, while we are out there playing in a very competitive, high level soccer he knows that it is a game and wants everyone to enjoy it. Soccer is a very important thing for us but it is important to put it in perspective and it always has to be fun. If it is not fun, then something is wrong and David is always out there making sure his teammates are enjoying what they’re doing. He is a pretty laid back kind of guy but still works hard so he is a good mix of being a laid back captain but also a hard worker. I think with David, he came in as a pretty skilled player. Technically and naturally as you continue to play, you develop but more than anything, I like to think that I helped him with is how to become a better leader. I think playing and being a great player is one thing but when you have to become the leader of a team, there is a lot more you have to think about other than delivering great performances on the field. There are a lot of things that go on off the field, and I think he is now a lot more aware of that and now is a lot more aware of the different personalities that are on the team and what kind of leader he needs to be to connect with everyone. I think that this is a pretty motivated group and they are pretty motivated to make it to the playoffs this year. For me as a coach, winning is great but we are trying to develop a culture where players can relate soccer to relationships and friendships. I think once you develop that friendship, the rest will come. I believe things will fall into place and good things will happen. So with the captains that we have this year, I think we have developed that culture where every member of the team enjoys being out on the field and we are associating soccer with being a family and really caring about one another.  


Alan Fang ’21
David is really good with the ball especially with his amazing control. He is also a very technical player and is able to make good decisions on the field with his constant communication. He picks up his head quick and knows what he wants to do with the ball in any given moment and his distribution is really good as he is one of our best shooters out there. I think David brings the team together just by constantly talking and giving directions in games and matches. You can always hear him on the field and will always be saying something to help us improve. In practice we play a lot of scrimmages and David will be communicating to both teams even though we are competing, he gives direction to both sides. He is constantly talking, always communicating, and lets us know what we need to do. David and I were both new to the team last year so it has been great playing alongside him for two years now. His play really speaks for itself and I think he was able to get to know the team really quickly because he was really vocal early on.