Edwin Escobar Focuses on Creating a Close Knit Team in his Third Season as Head Coach
BOFCXLII


Entering his third season of coaching at Andover, Head Coach Edwin Escobar wants his players to enjoy the game and learn how to overcome adverse situations. According to goalkeeper Phineas Walsh ’21, Escobar has cultivated a team with a balanced dynamic. 


Walsh said, “Escobar has built a really strong culture within the team. He’s been able to win the respect and likeness of his players while grooming a locker room full of guys ready to go 100 percent for him.”


Escobar played soccer in South America until he was ten years old; during these early years, his father was his coach. He went on to play soccer in the United States, and compteted at the high-school level in Massachusetts and at the collegiate level as a Co-Captain of his team at Middlebury College. His coaching career began at Tabor Academy and after nine years there, he came to Andover in 2016. 
What is your background in soccer as a player and a coach?
My dad is from Colombia and the love of the game comes from there. I grew up watching my father play. At a very young age, I learned to associate soccer with friendships. Where I'm from, hanging out is playing soccer...I played a little bit in Florida at the youth level... I played a little bit in Connecticut out there again in [my] youth. Then I went to a small high school in Western Massachusetts...I got [to play] there with a group of good player, [and] that opened up the opportunity to go to college and play at the college level… After that, I ended up coaching at Tabor Academy and there I was able to coach the girls varsity soccer team, [and] I was also able to coach the Boys Varsity Soccer team, [and] the JV programs there. Eventually nine years after working there, I ended up here at Andover, a place that I had for a long time looked into and hoped that one day I'd have the opportunity to work with the program.
What soccer player do you look up to?
I think I admire Ronaldinho, [former player for Paris Saint-Germain, Barcelona, and A.C. Milan]. Ronaldinho is not the most popular name today [and] will be one of those names that will be forgotten, but I think the game of soccer, it's supposed to be fun. He played it with a smile on his face, and that's what it should be all about. He won everything as a player and I think I attribute a lot of his success to the positive energy that he brought to the National Team that he played for and to the clubs that he played for. He won it all. 
What makes you passionate about soccer?
I think what motivates me is that the way that I view the game. I view it as an opportunity for you to bring a group of players together...How can I cultivate, how can I develop an environment where players feel that they are playing with more than just teammates? More like a family?
What makes your coaching style different from most coaches?
I’m a pretty demanding coach, and the reason that I’m demanding is because I strongly believe in the players that we have out there. They know each day that I’m going to demand high energy from them and more than anything, I want them to demand the best of themselves… I think that, if they were to describe how I am as a coach, I would hope that it is somewhere along those lines.
What is your favorite memory as a coach at Andover?
[My] favorite memory would probably have to be a particular game… Probably last year’s game against Exeter. I always love the crowd, always love the support of those who come out to watch us play. Watching Owen Glover [’19]  collect the assist in that game after battling a lot of injuries throughout his career here was really a special moment for me. It was just right for him to end his high school career here on a positive note… He had to overcome a lot to be there at that moment, to get that assist in a big game like that. So to see the smile on his face was great.
How is the team looking this year?
I think we are… as strong as we have been since I have been here. I think we have great leadership in [Co-Captain] Connor Ding [’20] and [Co-Captain] David Wang [’20]. They are very passionate about the sport and they are very demanding of their teammates and they lead by example. It has taken a little bit of time to get this group of players together and for them to know how to operate, [and] to work at the level at the level that they are working right now. 


EOFCXLII 














 
































































TRANSCRIPTIONS 


How long have you been coaching at Andover?
So this is officially my third season as head coach. I became the Head Coach after coach borden ended up leaving the program.




What is your background in soccer as a player and a coach?
So, I am originally from South America. Both my parents are. My dad is from Columbia and the love of the game comes from there. I grew up watching my father play. At a very young age, I learned to associate soccer with friendships. You know. And where I'm from hanging out is playing soccer. So if somebody asked you to go play soccer, that means you went to hang out. You know. So I started playing at a very young age. You know. My dad was my first coach. Umm. And then I played till I was about ten years old in South America and then I moved to the states. And I was in Florida. I played a little bit in Florida at the youth level. We made our way up north and we settled in Connecticut. Played a little bit in Connecticut out there again in youth. And then I went to a small high school in Western Mass called Mount Everett Regional High School. And there it was a school of about 600 students, but I was lucky enough that I got there with a group of good players and we did a lot of good things while I was there. And, that sort of opened up the opportunity to go to college and play at the college level and do some pretty good things there. Eventually being co captain of our mass college team there. um. After that, I ended up coaching at Tabor Academy and there I was able to coach the girls varsity soccer team there. Um help out with them. I was also able to coach with the boys varsity soccer team there, the JV programs there. Um. and eventually nine years after working there,I ended up here at Andover, um, a place that I had for a long time looked into and you know hoped that one day I'd have the opportunity to work here with the program.




What soccer player do you look up to?


I think I admire Ronaldinho. Ronaldinho which is not you know the most popular name today or probably will be one of those names that will be forgotten, but I think the game of soccer, it's supposed to be fun. he played it with a smile on his face. And thats what it should be all about. You know and he won everything as a player and I think I attribute a lot of his success just to the positive energy that he brought to the national team that he played for and to the clubs that he played for. You know. He won it all. He won it all. he did it with a smile on his face. He made it look easy.


What makes you passionate about soccer?


What makes me passionate? I think what motivates me is that the way that i view the game. I view it as an opportunity to for you to bring a group of players together. That you hope friendships come from. And that they understand that the game is a lot more than just an opportunity for you to come together with a group of people, you know, playing a sport that we all love, but at the end of the day its about those relationships that you build. I think that thats my motivation. Its like how can I cultivate, how can I develop an environment in where players feel that they are playing with more than just teammates. You know. More like a family.




What are your goals as a coach?


I think what we aspire as a program is for players to one day say that the Andover boys varsity soccer program or at all levels, helped them in one way or another become the individual that they are. You know. That it helped them build character. That it helped them deal with adversity and it better prepared them for the future.




What makes your coaching style different from most coaches?


I'd probably have to say that I, I'd like to think that I’m a pretty demanding coach and the reason that I’m demanding is because I strongly believe in the players that we have out there and they know each day that I’m going to demand high energy from them and more than anything, I want them to, you know, demand the best of themselves. So I think like, if anything, I think that, that... makes me unique.  I mean I don't know if that me unique. But I think that, if they were to describe how I am as a coach, I would hope that it is somewhere along those lines.




What is your favorite memory as a coach at Andover?


Favorite memory. Um. As favorite memory, would probably have to be... A particular game uhh was probably our like most recent memory, probably our last years game against Exeter. I mean I always love the crowd, always love the support of those who come out to watch us play. And watching Owen Glover, get, earn the assist, collect the assist in that game after him battling a lot of injuries throughout his career here was really a special moment for me because it was just right for him to end his, his high school career here, his soccer career here on a positive note. You know he had knee injuries. He had to overcome a lot to be there that moment. You know. To get that assist in a big game like that. So to see the smile on his face was great.


How is the team looking this year?


We look.. i think we are.. we are as strong as we have been since I have been here. I think we have great leadership in Conor Ding and David Wang. They are very passionate about they sport and they are very demanding of their teammates and you know they lead by example, so it has taken a little bit of time to get this group of players together and for them to you know to operate, to work at the level at the level that they are working right now. So we are as good as we have been in quite some time. And i think that the expectations are pretty high that the players have for themselves and we as coaches too have some pretty high expectations of this team moving forward.