Potential Paranormal Activity Reported in Stimson House
By: Laura Ospina
BOFCXLII
Occupants have reported various ghost sightings, unexplained occurrences, and human-like screaming for several years in Stimson House, according to Piper Drew ’20. Her Lower year, Drew claims to have seen a ghost standing over her bed.
“Technically, it was April 1, 12:13 a.m. I do remember looking at the clock. I was in my bed trying to fall asleep and I rolled over and at the foot of my bed, there was a woman standing there. She was in this long white dress and her arms were outstretched and in her hands she held what I best can describe as a ball of wire, almost, that had a light radiating from it. I promptly screamed and she disappeared,” said Drew. 
The night after the incident, Drew used string lights to provide some light to her room and they were turned on before she fell asleep. When Drew woke up, however, the lights were switched off. Drew attributed this to the ghost in her room.
“So either someone snuck into my room and switched them from on to off, but what I like to believe is that a ghost had flicked it off. So the following evening, the rest of my hallmates [and I] gathered in the common room of our three-room double and held a seance. This one girl found something online, some incantation to recite to get rid of the ghost and we had candles, we all held hands and we said the incantation. I haven't had a ghost problem since then, but for safety reasons, I bought a container of salt and salted my doorsteps and my window sills to try to keep the evil spirits out,” said Drew. 
According to Drew, multiple Stimson alumni have also reported altercations with ghosts. One account described a woman similar to the one that Drew saw, and another saw a child in the Stimson basement.
“I have heard a similar story to mine from a Senior who told me that the previous year, they had also had seen a woman in the Annex, which is where I live. When she described it, it sounded pretty similar to what I had seen so I like to think it was a ghost. I also do believe in ghosts,” said Drew. 
A couple of weeks ago, Alyssa Muffaletto ’21 noticed an unusual circumstance; her touch-sensitive lamp turned on by itself halfway through the night. Although she does not attribute this to paranormal activity, Muffaletto does not know what caused her light to turn on. 
Muffaletto said, “I have a lamp that's activated by touch only across the room from my bed, and I turned it off because the lightbulb is way too bright to be able to sleep while it's on. I also locked my door before I went to sleep. And [when] I woke up it was on and facing my bed, but usually it's facing the ground or my desk. It was a very weird circumstance because I didn't get up and turn it on. It was just on at 6:00 a.m. for no reason and the door was still locked. I don't know what happened.”
Mareesa Miles, a house counselor in Stimson and Teaching Fellow in English, believes that this paranormal activity makes sense due to Henry L. Stimson’s involvement in the Manhattan Project during World War II, an undertaking that eventually resulted in the first nuclear weapons. 
“I feel like Stimson probably has a ghost problem due to the fact [that] we're next to a graveyard. Our address is 13 Chapel Ave, and Henry L. Stimson wasn't a great guy, so it's like karma or something that leaves ghosts in this dorm. There's totally a possibility of other Knoll dorms being haunted just because of the location and also the [Cochran Bird] Sanctuary's sort of creepy,” said Drew.
Nicholas Zufelt, a house counselor in Stimson and Instructor in Mathematics, Statistics, & Computer Science, gave a possible explanation to the paranormal experiences by referencing the way sounds carry in Stimson. Additionally, he noted that, because Stimson is rumored to be a fallout shelter, it could be paranormal. 
“I am very new to being in a girl’s dorm so I’m trying my best not to panic when I hear sounds. I’m typically not awake at 1:00 a.m., and I am a heavy sleeper so I wouldn’t have heard [anything]. I am thinking that the sounds in this dorm carry in very weird ways because there are literal holes in the floor that go all the way up and down everywhere from all the vents and stuff,” said Zufelt. 
Zufelt continued, “There are also some crazy huge pipes. If you go to the garage, the pipes are ridiculously huge for there only being 40 people in this dorm. It looks like they could supply hundreds of people. I’m not a plumber, [but] that would be my guess — that the sounds carry very weirdly in this building because of all the holes in the walls and [the] massive pipes. That could be an explanation.”
EOFCXLII




















































Alyssa Muffaletto '21
I'm not sure if it's paranormal but a weird circumstance was a couple of weeks ago, I have a lamp that's activated by touch only across the room from my bed and I turned it off because the lightbulb is way too bright to be able to sleep while it's on. I also locked my door before I went to sleep. And I woke up it was on and facing my bed but usually, it's facing the ground or my desk. It was a very weird circumstance because I didn't get up and turn it on. It was just on at 6 am for no reason and the door was still locked. I don't know what happened.






Piper Drew '20
My current room is haunted but we held a seance to get rid of it. This happened my lower year. Technically, it was April 1st, 12:13 am, I do remember looking at the clock. I was in my bed trying to fall asleep and I rolled over and at the foot of my bed, there was a woman standing there and she was in this long white dress and her arms were outstretched and in her hands she held what I best can describe as a ball of wire, almost, that had a light radiating from it. I promptly screamed and she disappeared. My roommate came in and was like what's going on and I said I saw a ghost, I saw a ghost! We ended up all sleeping in my proctor's room that night because we were terrified. The next night I decided that it was fine, it was not going to hurt me so I sleep in my room again but this time, I borrowed some battery-powered string lights from my friend and I put them up on my wall so I could sleep with some lights on. I put new batteries in, I hung them up, I turned them on and I woke up at 3 am and they were still on, everything was fine. Then, when I woke up around 7 that morning, they were off so I assumed that the battery had just died but when I looked at the little switch box, they had just been switched to off and when I clicked them back on, the lights came right back on. So either, someone had snuck into my room and switched them from on to off but what I like to believe is that a ghost had flicked it off. So the following evening, me and the rest of my hallmates gathered in the common room of our three-room double and held a seance. This one girl found something online, some incantation to recite to get rid of the ghost and we had candles, we all held hands and we said the incantation and I haven't had a ghost problem since then. But for safety reasons, I bought a container of salt and salted my doorsteps and my window sills to try to keep the evil spirits out and I did that again last year after a whole adventure with breaking mirrors and graveyards and whatnot but I haven't had any ghost incidents this year so hopefully, we're all good. But I have heard a similar story to mine from my lower year from a senior who told me that the previous year, they had also had seen a woman in the Annex, which is where I live. When she described it, it sounded pretty similar to what I had seen so I like to think it was a ghost and I also do believe in ghosts. I genuinely believe it was a ghost 
I would say that Stimson is definitely haunted as there have been multiple people, myself included, who have seen ghosts here. The other people who have seen ghosts graduated last year and the year before that but they had both told me two separate stories. One, similar to mine, and then another one about a different apparition. 
I have heard of some people seeing ghosts around campus but I can't remember who or where it was. When this happened, I brought it up in my class the next day and someone said, I've seen a ghost in my dorm but I can't remember which dorm they were in. 
I feel like Stimson probably definitely has a ghost problem due to the fact we're next to a graveyard, our address is 13 Chapel Ave, and Henry L. Stimson wasn't a great guy so it's like karma or something that leaves ghosts in this dorm. There's totally a possibility of other Knoll dorms being haunted just because of the location and also the Sanctuary's sort of creepy. But I wouldn't say it's a school-wide problem it might just be dorm contained to certain places. 
I didn't ask the ghost to never come back. I just asked the ghost to not bother me anymore so I could sleep and I haven't seen the ghost since then. I do very much believe I saw the ghost because it was so vivid, it was mad creepy. The majority of my hall at the time also believe in ghosts so we were all so creeped out, we all slept on my proctor's floor. The thing the next night with it switching off was also just really creepy. Weird things like that kept on happening until we held the seance. 
(child in the basement)


Ms. Miles, House Counselor in Stimson
No nothing, except the fisher cats outside but they're outside. 
No, this is the first time hearing of it. 
I don't know, it might be a ghost. That would be fascinating. But how would we test?
It would make sense. It's pretty old, no nevermind, it was made in the 70s. But it's named after a guy who worked on the Manhattan Project so it would make sense that someone would haunt a building named after him. So maybe.


Dr. Zufelt
The only thing I have heard about paranormal activity was from the interviewers who were asking me about it and I was like I didn’t even know it was a thing that people were concerned about. So that was my first time hearing about it. 


No, nothing like that has happened to me. I don’t consider myself to be someone who either greatly believes in it or doesn’t necessarily but I don’t know if that necessarily matters but nothing like that has happened to me here. One of the things that happens is because there are so many human beings in the dorms, walking around when they’re all sleeping, when I’m on duty and doing a round, it does feel a little bit creepy in that way not because of anything paranormal I think that’s just the normal reaction when you’re surrounded by sleeping humans to be like oh boy, am I disturbing the peace, which I think is a feeling that brings out some of those concerns. 


I am very new to being in a girl’s dorm so I’m trying my best not to panic when I hear sounds. I’m typically not awake at 1 am and I am a heavy sleeper so I wouldn’t have heard that but I am thinking that the sounds in this dorm carry in very weird ways because there are literal holes in the floor that go all the way up and down everywhere from all the vents and stuff. There are also some crazy huge pipes, if you go to the garage, the pipes are ridiculously huge for there only being 40 people in this dorm, it looks like they could supply like hundreds of people, I guess I’m not a plumber. I guess that would be my guess that the sounds carry very weirdly in this building because of all the holes in the walls and there are massive pipes so that could be an explanation.


It is a fallout shelter, the sign is still on the walls outside. Maybe there is a reservoir of water, what do you need in a fallout shelter? That’s a good question. 


Without a doubt, I think [that Stimson is a fallout shelter] adds to the allure of the paranormal. I think it would be an interesting story to add to it, historically, what kind of procedures and trials and tests and things they did with students back in the day, did they ever cram a bunch of people into the dorm to test out the fallout capabilities? I don’t know. 


Miranda Stewart ’21, Smith House -- we will use this quote for a Smith feature next week
I believe without a doubt there is a ghost in Smith. It set off fire alarms and Dr. V said her door slams for no reason sometimes. The ghost has been there for a while, so the seniors last year named it Delores.