Af-Lat-Am Mixer Brings Together New and Returning Students to Forge Friendships
BOFCXLII
Students gathered in the Community and Multicultural Development (CAMD) office scrambled to come up with the title of the song being played as part of the “Name That Song” game during Af-Lat-Am’s annual mixer. Songs like “My Boo” by Ghost Town DJs, “Ready or Not” by The Fugees, and “Buy You a Drank” by T-Pain were among those played as part of the game, which aimed to help students meet and bond.
Af-Lat-Am co-president Abby Ndikum ’20 said, “In the beginning, we played ‘Name That Song’ because we wanted everyone to participate in an icebreaker that would promote member bonding. Throughout history, music has played an essential element to both the black and Latinx communities, so the [Af-Lat-Am] board believed that by incorporating this game, we could share a small piece of each culture to the broader community.”
The mixer was held in CAMD last Friday evening. According to Araba Aidoo ’20, fellow co-president of Af-Lat-Am and organizer of the event, the purpose of the mixer was to meet new students, incorporate them into the group, and welcome back returning students. 
“We want new students to feel like this is their go-to place, like this is the place where they can feel like they belong. When they're having trouble, or feeling lonely, they can find someone in Af-Lat-Am and know that they will listen and talk to them. For a returning student, we want them to find the leader within themselves… and share their experiences and wisdom [with new students],” said Aidoo. 
In addition to the games, students ate food and talked amongst each other, allowing new and returning students to forge connections and build trust. Along with the opening “Name That Song” game, participant Izunna Obiora ’22 said that the annual “Either/Or” game was the highlight of his first mixer the previous year, and something that he looked forward to this year. Questions such as “Pepsi vs. Coke?” or “East Coast vs. West Coast?” encouraged participants to express their opinions. 
“‘Either/Or’ … [ was] definitely the most memorable part of the mixer last year. It always gets very loud and active. I enjoy being in a community where there is enough respect and trust that we can be free to voice our opinions, even if they may be different,” said Obiora. 
The Af-Lat-Am mixer also provided a space for new students to meet older and returning students. Paulkichna Merove ’22, a new Lower, expressed how welcoming the returning members of Af-Lat-Am were to her and explained the importance of joining a safe community and the sense of belonging it helped create for her. 
Merove said, “They are very welcoming here. As I was walking in, Layomi [Oloritun ’20] came out of nowhere and greeted me. I think it's important as a black student to be surrounded by others like you… and makes you feel like you're part of a community. As a black student in a predominantly white space, these sort of spaces are important to be a part of.”
EOFCXLII
________________


Summer Seward ’21
“I've been coming for three years and I am a part of Af-Lat-Am. It means a lot to have a space on campus that feels like I can see people who look like me and we can hang out. I like to come to the mixers every year and meet the new freshman of color.
“Over the past three years, the mixer attracts more and more people and gets more exciting. We all love coming and having a good time. There is always good food, and I love to meet new people and see my old friends. It's a great way to start the year off right. 
“Last year, we played Either Or. Stand up for this and sit down for that; it was very intense.
“My favorite part of this year's event is the food. There's this Dominican meat pie; it's very good.
“I hoped to hang out with my friends and meet new people of color on campus. 




Sofia Garcia ’21


“Af-Lat-Am is a great place to be. It is an awesome, safe community and I am super excited to start the year off with them. I've come a couple of years in a row now and it's great to be back and see all the new faces.


“When I was a new student, it was really exciting and foreign to come here; I never knew a community like this before, so it was a little scary at first. It feels like a family now and I can't wait for others to join. 


“Part of me wanted to get to know the new students of color. I have some in my dorm, but I wanted a chance to meet all of them. I also wanted to come and reconnect with my friends in CAMD. 


“The spirit of the people makes the event special. Everyone in Af-Lat-Am has so much joy and it's great to see it all come together and open the school year like this.


“It's important to have a family on campus and Af-Lat-AM is a great place to start if that's what you're looking for. 


Paulkichna Merove ’22
“I wanted to meet other students of color. I think it's important as a black student to be surrounded by others like you. It helps you feel a lot more assimilated with other people and makes you feel like you're part of a community. As a black student in a predominantly white space, these sort of spaces are important to be a part of.


“They are very welcoming here. As I was walking in, Layomi came out of nowhere and greeted me. I took it as a sign that I was going to have a good time here. 


“The food has been my favorite part; it has so much soul. I"ve never had Spanish food before, so it was great to try something new. 


“Usually what I do is introduce myself and sometimes that may spark conversation, but sometimes it doesn't. 


Izunna Obiora ’22


“Right now we're playing Either/Or, where we are given two options and we either stand up or sit down based on which one we prefer. This is definitely the most memorable part of the mixer last year. It always gets very loud and active. I enjoy being in a community where there is enough respect and trust that we can be free to voice our opinions, even if they may be different. 


“I wanted to meet some of the new people to Af-Lat-Am. Mainly, I wanted to eat some good food. Before you speak, we like to ask people to say their name and grade. That's an easy way to put names to faces. Right now, when people begin to argue their side in the game, you can begin to get to know them better. 


“I'm a part of the club and one of the affinity groups attached to it, Brotherhood. Being a member of the club is mainly coming to events and also advertising for the groups to get more people. In the affinity space, it's more about being with people like you and people you can identify with.


“This is the first big event of the year and is a good way to start the year. I would encourage new students to attend because this is a very great, lively, place to be. If you want to get away from commons food or people, you can come here. 


Nnenna Okorie ’22


“I wanted to meet new people. I went around commons with Angie Wimmer and we tried to encourage new students to come.






“The community makes this event special. There is a sense of trust between people. Even though this may be people's first time on campus and having so many people in a space, they are comfortable enough with each other to voice their opinions in the Either/Or game. 


“The Either/Or game is my favorite part. Before I came out, there was East Coast vs West Coast, North vs South, Pepsi vs Coke, etc. I like how casual it is, and that even though it is so casual, everyone voices their opinions. 


Araba Aidoo ’20


“We have had this mixer every year for the past for years. At the beginning of every year, we have the AfLatAm 'get to know you' type mixer. We usually have food and we play the Either/Or game. I guess it's changed because we've been trying to diversify who comes to the club. We've been trying to appeal to all types of people, especially in the past years we've noticed that we're lacking Latinx representation. Especially this year, we see a lot of younger people coming to AfLatAm; it's very good because we want to continue the legacy. We have diversified our board and we make sure that we don't just have one identity that's making all the decisions. We want our board members to communicate with the people who we want to come to the club. We try and get people we know are outgoing and are willing to get to know everyone. We also make sure that we're friends with a wide range of people. 


“We want new students to feel like this is their go-to place like this is the place where they can feel like they belong. When they're having trouble, or feeling lonely, they can find someone in Af-Lat-Am and know that they will listen and talk to them. New students can feel at home with us. For a returning student, we want them to find the leader within themselves. We have a lot of younger new students come in which provides an opportunity for returning students to get to know them and share their experiences and wisdom.


“While organizing this event, we essentially divided up the responsibilities. A couple of people made the games, others made the playlist, and as co-heads, Abby and I were responsible for ordering the food and finding a venue. 


“My favorite part is the Either/Or game. I think it shows how different people in Af-Lat-Am can be. People often see us all as people of color, but we are very different once you get to know us. 


Abby Ndikum ’20


“My name is Abigail Ndikum and with Araba Aidoo, we serve as the Af-Lat-Am co-presidents for the 2019-2020 school year. The board members include Henrique Chamon ’21, Salvador Gomez ’21, Adesua Osula ’21, HIlena Misganaw ’21, and Martina Gil-Diaz ’21. On Friday the 13th, we hosted our first Af-Lat-Am meeting of the new school year- a mixer opened to the entire Andoer community. In the beginning, we played “Name That Song” because we wanted everyone to participate in an icebreaker that would promote member bonding. Throughout history, music has played an essential element to both the black and Latinx communities, so the board believed that by incorporating this game, we could share a small piece of each culture to the broader community. 


“The high-spirited energy in the room engaged all as they tried to be the first to correctly guess each song. People enjoyed both the music and food, and we ended up running overtime because we were too busy having fun. It was amazing to see a room full of diverse faces, as Af-Lat-Am is an organization opened to the entire Andover community. We hope to see more people attend our fun events and meetings in the future.