Pets of the Month: Charlie and Yukon Foster Sense of Home in School Environment
Noemi Elliott


BOFCXLII
When the Fenton family first adopted Yukon, their Golden Retriever, he would prance around in the snow, his underside caked with frost. Yukon, named after Yukon Cornelius from the 1964 movie “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,” has been a part of the Fenton family for around ten years[a]. They decided to name him Yukon because he was born on Christmas Day.
Martha Fenton ’83, West Quad North Cluster Dean and Instructor in Athletics, lives on campus with her children and two dogs, Yukon and Charlie, another Golden Retriever.
Aidan Fenton ’23 said, “When I was five, I brought Yukon in for show and tell, and all the students were really excited to have a puppy in the classroom… I remember having all the kids on the rug, and I was sitting in a rocking chair with Yukon. He was about 15 pounds or even lighter, and I remember bringing him out onto the playground afterward and going down the slide with him.”
Charlie, short for Charlotte, joined in the spring of 2019. Martha recalled some of her favorite memories with her dogs, highlighting when Charlie first learned to swim over this past summer. 
“We live in Essex in the summertime and [we watch Charlie and Yukon] play in the sandbars in Essex. They both love the water. Charlie learned to swim there. She initially wasn’t so sure, but watching her grow in confidence and play in the water over the summer has been great,” said Fenton.
Yukon and Charlie are usually situated outside Paresky Commons during meal times, where students and faculty members often take a minute or two to sit down and pet them. Posie Millett ’20 described the importance of pets and how they allow students to unwind from a long day of classes.  
“When Ms. Fenton comes into [Bancroft House] and brings Yukon or Charlie with her, it really brings the energy up. Both Charlie and Yukon remind me of home, and to have a presence on campus that is a very pure form of excitement and joy is important… When I am with [Charlie and Yukon], it’s great to take a break from my day and enjoy part of life that isn’t centered around school or academics,” said Millet.
According to Fenton, campus pets are an important part of student’s lives and are therapeutic, bringing a sense of normalcy and lightness.
“My favorite interaction between Charlie and Yukon and the student body has been seeing people light up when they interact with them. A lot of students have pets at home and miss them while they’re away, so knowing my dogs can give them that sense of comfort and fun has always been great to watch,” said Fenton. 
Kennedy Smith ’22 agrees with Fenton, and was happy to see the dogs visit her soccer practice. 
She said, “Ms. Fenton once brought Charlie and Yukon to our soccer practice. The whole team got distracted because we all wanted to pet them. I think having pets on campus is great because they are stress relievers and they create a sense of community within campus and between faculty and students.”
EOFCXLII






































































Transcription of interview with Ms. Fenton 
“Yukon will be ten on Christmas day, he has grown up on campus. When we first got Yukon, we were down by the daycare. He’s always been around kids, loves the attention, and has always been a mellow dog. Charlie, we got last spring. She is definitely a puppy who has a lot of energy and is keeping Yukon young. It’s been fun to see her grow up.


“My favorite moments with those two were this summer. We live in Essex in the summertime and watching them play in the sandbars in Essex. They both love the water. Charlie learned to swim there. She initially wasn’t so sure but watching her grow in confidence and play in the water over the summer has been great. It was a blast.


“My favorite interaction between Charlie and Yukon and the student body has been seeing people light up when they interact with them. A lot of students have pets at home and miss them while they’re away, so knowing can give them that sense of comfort and fun has always been great to watch.


“I think pets can be incredibly therapeutic. I also think it makes school makes feel more like hope for some kids, having that aspect of pets. Pets are an important part of kids' lives. They bring a sense of normalcy and lightness, but I also know that not all students like pets so you have to be careful of not imposing the dogs on them. Kids can get to know the dogs, and Yukon, in particular, has been great about this. 


Aidan Fenton ’23


“Yukon we got when I was five years old. We got him from one of my older sister’s friends, a breeder in Andover. That was in 2009 or 2010. Charlie we got about eight months ago during April break. I convinced my mom to get Charlie. We had all been nagging my mom about it for a really long time until she got Charlie.


“When we were in our summer house in Essex, Yukon was playing around in the snow and it would tickle him. He’d jump up and down and prance in the snow. This was right when we got him, so I was around five. 


“When I brought Yukon in for show and tell, all the students were really excited to have a puppy in the classroom. My mom had to hold him. I remember having all the kids on the rug, and I was sitting in a rocking chair with Yukon. He was about 15 pounds or even lighter, and I remember bringing him out onto the playground and going down the slide with him.

“Yukon was born on Christmas, so we named him after Yukon Cornelius from the Rudolph movie. Charlie is short for Charlotte. 


“I think pets are a very good support system for the students here. I remember during finals last
Year, a lot of the kids used Yukon as a therapy dog in addition to the other therapy dogs on campus. 


“I love seeing kids outside petting Yukon and hanging out. They’ll walk outside and stop just to pet him for a few minutes. I remember my mom telling me this story that a girl said that she chose Andover because of Yukon. My mom brought Yukon on the girl’s tour and that’s why she decided to come here.


“Charlie and Yukon love to wrestle all the time with each other. Charlie will start biting at his paws, and Yukon will reach a breaking point and he’ll snap back. They’ll then wrestle for an hour or so. Yukon is definitely the big brother and he shows Charlie what to do a lot of the time. He also puts Charlie in her place when she’s being annoying. 


Posie Millet ’20
“I have two dogs at home and every time I go home, seeing my dogs make me really happy. I always run with them and they are a big part of my life. When Ms. Fenton comes into the dorm and brings Yukon or Charlie with her, it really brings the energy up. Both Charlie and Yukon remind me of home, and to have a presence on campus that is a very pure form of excitement and joy is important. 


“I think it’s calming to sit down and pet a dog and not have to think or worry about anything else. It’s so cute when I see Yukon or Charlie outside commons. When I am with them, it’s great to take a break from my day and enjoy part of life that isn’t centered around school or academics. 




[a]can we get an exact date? what year was he born/adopted?