GVS Remains Undefeated, Achieves 200th Win under Head Coach Lisa Joel
Christine Michael 
BOFCXLII
Following an assist from Nicola Sommers PG’20, Karoline Conte ’21 tipped the ball into the net during the first half against St. Paul’s, tying the game at 1-1. Isobel Glass ’21 widened the gap by scoring again during the second half. Andover Girls Soccer won the game with a score of 2-1, securing Head Coach Lisa Joel’s 200th win. 
Andover went on to compete against Governor’s on Wednesday and came out on top with a score of 3-1, extending the team’s undefeated record to 9-0-3. 
Despite the early goal St. Paul’s scored, the team was able to regain composure, according to Glass and Mack Lucas ’20. 
“I think that overall it was a well-fought game. We proved to ourselves that we can come back after going down a goal, and we can not only tie the game but win the game, which I think was awesome,” said Glass. 
Lucas said, “I think in the beginning we got very caught off guard [with] their style of playing which is very ‘kick and run,’ and I think we had a hard time settling down in the first half, and by the second half we got a lot of mistakes fixed and it got a lot better.”
In addition to the team’s having to come back from behind, it also dealt with numerous challenges, specifically having a Friday night time slot rather than the usual afternoon games.
According to Lucas, “I think having the Friday night game totally made a difference. We were tired, it was an away game, we were late, [there were] a lot of different variables going on that we were not used to, and we also had to come from behind because they scored 20 minutes into the first half.”
However, some players such as Bella DiBenedetto ’20, Emily Hardy ’20, and Lucas, who was named Player of the Game, stepped up despite the challenges the team had to face. 
“I think Bella DiBenedetto played a really great game. We had a rough time keeping our midfield organized and finding our midfielders feet. She's always a player who can find the gaps, and even if we can't find her feet, she's always in that space to receive the ball, so I think she did a good job consistently finding that space. Our goalie, Emily Hardy, she had a really good save too. Every time she saves the ball it's like, ‘Wait, how did she do that?’” said Lucas. 
Glass said, “I think all of us would agree that [Lucas] had a really strong game. She was just reliable and performed really well along with Nicola in the midfield, which created a lot of chances. I think there were numerous one on ones that Mack had to defend and take care of sometimes by herself.” 
Against Governor’s, Andover demonstrated its ability to adjust for the specific playing styles of the different teams, according to Emily Kelly ’22. 
“It was a really hard game, so they really showed how well they played. We had a bad [referee] and we had to make do with what we had, but overall, we played well. It was aggressive, the team was very dirty, so we had to adjust to make sure that everything was safe,” said Kelly. 
As well as displaying its adaptability, Andover showed improvement and reached new milestones together as a team, according to Kelly. 
Kelly continued, “Mary Stuart Kerrigan [’22] got player of the game [against Governor’s], but there were so many other players who played so well too. I think Karoline Conte did really well, as well as Isobel Glass, and Lily Haik [’22] also got her first goal of the season. Lily's goal was amazing.”
Andover will host Northfield Mount Hermon on Saturday at Graves Field. 
EOFCXLII




GVS TRANSCRIPTIONS: 
10/11 against St. Pauls, win (2-1) 
10/16 against Governor’s Academy, win (3-1)
Isobel Glass ’21 
I think that overall it was a well fought game. We proved to ourselves that we can come back after going down a goal and that we can not only tie the game but win the game which I think was really awesome. But I think that overall it wasn't necessarily our best game. There was a lot of room for improvement in terms of starting strong. I think that having a Friday night game was definitely something that played a part in our performance. For everyone were not used to friday night game. So coming off of a full school day and then this really long bus ride, that was something that probably affected us a little bit. Mack got player of the game, our central defender. I think all of us would agree that she had a really strong game. she was just reliable and performed really well along with Nicola in the midfield, which created a lot of chances. I think there were numerous one one ones that Mack had to defend and take care of sometimes by herself. She had a lot of highlights in those kind of plays when she was alone and she had to do all the work. Karoline Conte scored and I scored a goal. I think both the goals were tap-ins and I think they both really showed points of being in the right place at the right time. it was really exciting because it was our coach Lisa Joel's 200th win. The first goal was scored in the first half, and it was scored after we went down 1-0. The second goal was scored in the second half, mid-way to a little bit later. I think our team right now is looking really strong and we should just work on no matter the time of day or how we get there, once we get to a game just really focusing on and not letting ourselves go down early in the game, and to start strong. It was St. Paul's family weekend night game, so it was really nice to beat them in front of their families.
Mack Lucas ’20 
I think it wasn't our best performance. Since St. Pauls was definitely a team that wasn't the toughest opponent we've faced this season so I think in the beginning we got very caught off guard on their style of playing which is very "kick and run" and I think we had a hard time settling down in the first half, and by the second half we got a lot of mistakes fixed and it got a lot better. I think having the Friday night game totally made a difference. As soon as we got there, we got there kind of later, we only had twenty minutes to warm up which is obviously not the ideal situation. We were tired, it was an away game, we were late, it was a lot of different variables going on that we were not used to, and we also had to come from behind because they scored 20 minutes into the first half. We have been coming from behind lately so it's good that we can actually come from behind, but it's definitely an extra challenge to have to make up for the goal. I think Bella DiBenedetto played a really great game. We had a rough time keeping our midfield organized and finding our midfielders feet and everything like that. she's kind of always a player who can find the gaps and even if we can't find her feet, she's always in that space to receive the ball so I think she did a really good job consistently finding that space. Anna Hurley also an attack player, she played really well. She had a few shots on goal, and I think our PG Nicola Sommers played really well too. She gave Conte the assist which we needed. Nicola's assist because Karoline made a really good run and Nicola found her feet, it was cool. Our goalie, Emily Hardy, she had a really good saves too. Everytime she saves the ball it's like "Wait how did she do that?". There was this one play where a goal was coming right at Hardy and tried to snake it in right next to the post, and Hardy somehow saved it, we don't know how, but she did so that was really nice. We need to work on finding our midfielder's feet, and whether that's playing out of the back and not just kicking it or having our midfielders move to find that space, and not necessarily having our midfielders move bring a defender over, but to move with each other and open up a space for each other. And then again just keeping the ball at our feet because we're really good with the ball at our feet. In the air it's a 50/50 ball, but if we can keep the ball at our feet, that's when we can beat everyone. I think the team dynamic was awesome. Half of us were tired and sick and we had a lot of challenges in that game, I think the fact that we banded together and came back from that was awesome. The bus ride home was wicked fun and we were all happy that we got that win and it was just good to play with each other. I think that our team dynamic is something that I we definitely have as an advantage. We play for each other, other teams play to win, and we play to win too of course but our biggest motivation is to play for each other, and you can really see that on the field, especially when we're coming from behind. 
Emily Kelly ’22 
We won 3-1 against Govs. Mary Stuart Kerrigan got player of the game, but there were so many other players who played so well too. There were so many good plays. I think Karoline Conte did really well, as well as Isobel Glass, and Lily Haik also got her first goal of the season. It was a really hard game so they really just showed how well they played. We had a bad ref and we had to make do with what we had, but overall we played really well. It was really aggressive, the team was very dirty, so we had to adjust to make sure that everything was safe. There were a couple of plays where they would just go up and head it, but in the way they were heading it, it would go down and jump really high. One time they headed Nicola in the head, and she has a huge egg on her head now, it's really huge now. It was just so bad. and then number 14, kept going at Conte, it was so bad, so dirty. It was terrifying, the ref should have made so many more calls. There were a couple good players on the other team, and I think Karoline held off against her really well, she really fought for every single play that she did. Number 14 was kind of dirty, but she was the best player on their team, so Conte really was able to put up a fight against her and was able to stop her. Lily's goal I thought was amazing. The play started at half with Nicola winning the ball and she passed it to Kendall who was right on the sidelines and was still about half, and she played a through to Isobel Glass who was able to just get it under because they had a very high line and the player was right on her, and she was able to dribble all the way to the 18, and that's how she passed it off the Lily who was able to go right through the goalie, and shot it and scored. I thought it was brilliant. We played really well and I hope we keep it up. Next game is family weekend, so hopefully a lot of people pull up.