BOFCXLII
Receiving the set, Co-Captain Chioma Ugwonali ’20 jumped up as middle hitter and spiked the ball across the net to secure the match-winning point during the fifth set against Taft to win 3-2 on Saturday. Andover Girls Volleyball continued their winning streak against Hotchkiss with a 3-0 win Saturday.
In the second set against Taft, two Andover players, Violet Enes ’21 and Adaeze Izuegbunam ’20, suffered injuries, causing the team to make three lineup changes. Andover eventually rebuilt its momentum and came back to win, which shows the team’s resiliency, according to Head Coach Clyfe Beckwith.
During both games on Saturday, the team sought to improve its communication and incorporate the playing styles of new team members, according to Coach Beckwith and Brooklyn Wirt ’21. 
Beckwith wrote in an email to The Phillipian, “At the beginning of each season, the most important aspect is establishing good chemistry on the court, a rhythm, trust, adjustments to players' strengths developed or lost since last season, and we are making good strides to that effect.”
Wirt added, “I think definitely what we’ve been working on is persistence and making sure that we talk and we keep the ball off the floor. That’s the point of the game but making sure that we’re communicating and everyone’s just doing their job. The whole team just works better that way,” said Wirt. 
Andover’s offensive players especially stood out this weekend with their powerful hits and strategic playing, according to Wirt. 
“Sascha [Evans ’21] has definitely come into her own and she’s been playing awesome. She’s been swinging so hard, making really smart plays… Our middles, Chioma and Adaeze, are always really [standout] players and they’re always doing a lot for us,” said Wirt.
The team’s success this past week stemmed from both Coach Beckwith and the captains, according to Ugwonali and Wirt.
“I love Coach Beckwith. This is my fourth year playing under his guidance and he’s such a nice guy, but he also knows when to be tough on us. And he looks to us captains to be teachers as well, and I appreciate that because although it seems as if ‘Captain’ is just a title that some people have, it’s actually a responsibility,” said Ugnowali. 
Wirt added, “Our captains have been working really hard trying to figure out what to say at what times to motivate individuals because that’s something that’s really difficult with teams because you’re not always going to have the same motivation for every person on the team. I think that our captains are working really hard to make sure that everyone has what they need to be the best player that they need to be.”
Later in the week, the team also bested Central Catholic 3-0 in a scrimmage and played a game against the newly-formed Brooks team to win 3-0 on Wednesday. The team’s record now stands at 4-0.
Andover looks to remain unbeaten when it plays Loomis Chaffee at home this Saturday.
Editor’s Note: Brooklyn Wirt ’21 is an Associate Digital Editor for The Phillipian.
EOFCXLII
                
                
                
                
                
 
 
 
________________


Transcription
 
Brooklyn Wirt ’21 –
 
I think definitely what we’ve been working on is persistence and making sure that we talk and we keep the ball off the floor. That’s the point of the game but making sure that we’re communicating and everyone’s just doing their job. The whole team just works better that way. We’ve won all of our games except for our first scrimmage against Andover High so we’ve been doing a good a good job of that. We’ve also been working on speeding up our offense and just trying to be faster and run faster plays because that makes the other team a lot less prepared.
 
There was an awesome play that happened in our game against Hotchkiss. We were receiving a serve and there was this really good pass from Violet Enes and then it was a set up with Brooke and she had a really great pass to our middle, Chioma and she just hit it straight down for our point. That was one of the last few points of the Hotchkiss game. A similar thing happened it was like a longer rally and I think Michelle who’s one of our other liberos had a really great pass up to Brooke as well and Chioma had a really good final kill to put it away. And that was a really tight last set, so it was a really important play.
 
Sascha has definitely come into her own and she’s been playing awesome. She’s been swinging so hard, making really smart plays. And she’s been playing all the way around so she’s been playing defense as well which is definitely something new for her but she’s been doing a really good job. Our middles, Chioma and Adaeze, are always really standing out players and they’re always doing a lot for us. And we have a freshman, her name’s Michelle who played almost the whole game against Taft and it was our first time getting to see her in action and she did an awesome job. Brooke and Sarah, our centers, they’ve both been doing their best to be consistent and working hard even when they’re not getting the best setups. They were still putting the ball in really good spots.
 
I think definitely just keeping our energy up and staying positive. Volleyball is a really mental game so if you lose one point and people start to spiral and get inside their own heads, you could lose a whole set because of it. So, I think that’s definitely something we’ve been working on. Even when we make errors we’ve been working on moving on and worrying about the next play.
 
Coach Beckwith puts a lot of faith in us and knows what we know what we need at any given point and so he’s been working a lot with us to talking to our captains and saying what we need when we need it. He tells us wherever we’re going wrong. We’ve been working a lot on offense in practice and that’s something that always helps you win. Our captains have been working really hard trying to figure out what to say at what times to motivate individuals because that’s something that’s really difficult with teams because you’re not always going to have the same motivation for every person on the team. I think that our captains are working really hard to make sure that everyone has what they need to be the best player that they need to be.
 
Coach Beckwith-
 
at the beginning of each season, the most important aspect is establishing good chemistry on the court, a rhythm, trust, adjustments to players' strengths developed or lost since last season, and we are making good strides to that effect.
 
we have in chioma ugwonali and adaeze izuegbunam two exceptionally powerful middle hitters, and when confronted with our backs to the wall we have relied heavily on these two for fast attacks to make up points on the score board.
 
i do not like this question: we are a team, every player needs five others on the court to do their job, plus the team mates to practice, simulate a match.  yes, there are some with more influence and experience, but to say they stand out above the others inflates one individual over another.
 
we have shown at taft, when violet enes had to leave the match for a possibly broken nose, and adaeze i. had to come out because of an ankle injury that we indeed can rally against a strong opponent and put forth a team win.
 
we are still working on timing, on reading an opponent's weakness (their defensive positions, forcing them to play against without their strengths), adjusting to our own ups and downs.
 
we can always improve on every aspect of the game.  we served far too many balls out against taft, giving them as many as 10 gift points, and opened the door for them to take advantage of that.  we can do far better playing a ball when out of system.
 
yes, they have been on the court for our wins.
 
Chioma  Ugwonali ’20-
 
During practice, we have worked on a lot of covering after blocks and our practice really showed through in our most recent game against Taft on Saturday where we really came back in the last two sets because we were on our toes and we were reading to hit the ball wherever it went.
 
I would say Mudmee Sereeyothin, class of 2020. She has impressed me a lot because she is such a versatile player: she can hit, she can pass, defend. And I feel like she is definitely an underrated player because this is her last year and we don’t really always show our appreciation for everything that she does for the team and she has a great story. She started on JV her first two years and then made varsity her upper year and she’s still on varsity senior year. And I’m really glad coach made that decision a couple years ago because she’s definitely one of the most valuable players on the team.
 
I think we’ve improved on making good plays, especially when we need to change up the tempo of the game whether that be going from a slow pass to a fast set and then a fast hit or a fast pass to a slow hit and a roll shot. And I feel like we need to still work on maintaining that energy and being consistent with our serves as well. In one of sets against Taft, we missed serve after serve, at least five serves in a row. Of course, those were points we could have made but I’m glad we ended up winning regardless.
 
As one of the captains, I try to maintain positive energy throughout the court, but also have lots of positive energy, encouragement, and critique because is especially important in these first few games because if we start critiquing each other at the end of the season, people will get snappy and people will feel like the critique is personal, when in reality, we just want each individual player to develop her skills. And I think the energy Brooke and I bring onto the court has really helped our team succeed even when we’re down. And also, we just have a bunch of good raw, talent on the team that I’m really excited to see develop and implemented in these games we have coming up against some tough teams, like we have Choate in a few weeks.
 
Honestly, I love Coach Beckwith. This is my fourth year playing under his guidance and he’s such a nice guy, but he also knows when to be tough on us. And he looks to us captains to be teachers as well, and I appreciate that because although it seems as if captain is just a title that some people game, it’s actually a responsibility. I’m still growing into that responsibility and I think that Brooke is too and learning how to uplift our players and make them and help them become resilient. Coach Beckwith is a great combination of an advisor, mentor, kind of a father figure honestly, and a coach.