Andover Hosts 35th Annual Model UN Conference
By Karen Wang


Andover’s Model United Nations (Model UN) held its 35th annual flagship Phillips Academy Interscholastic Model UN (PAIMUN) conference on October 13. 
112 delegates from Andover, Andover High School, Belmont Hill, Choate, Commonwealth, Milton, Northfield Mount Hermon, Weston, and Winchester High debated solutions for contemporary and historical global conflicts. Karen Sun ’20, MUN Secretary General, helped lead the planning process for the conference, which began over six months in advance. 
Sun said, “Overall, [the planning process] was a lot of work, but it was really fun and putting it together and seeing it come to fruition today was so satisfying. Honestly, I’m so, so proud of everything the board did to make this happen. Generally, we like to frame this conference as a very educational experience for advanced debaters to get better at debating, and for new debaters to really push their limits, put themselves out there, and really realize what Model UN is all about.” 
According to Grace Posorske ’20, President of MUN, the six months of planning have been a “long ride.” To organize PAIMUN, the board had to agree on a date, send out invitations to other schools, determine committee topics, write background guides, find catering, book venues, create awards, and more. 
“I think that there are a lot of things that slip your mind in terms of what needs to be done, like where should people park and how much should we charge Andover students to attend the conference, but when it comes to actuality, it’s actually quite crucial. So the process was very long and drawn out and had a lot of hiccups, but it got done and it was successful,” said Posorske.
Participating delegates were organized into three committees: the General Assembly (GA) on children’s rights, the Security Council on the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, and the Joint Crisis Committee (JCC) on the French Revolution’s June Rebellion. The GA, chaired by Michael Lu ’21 and CC Song ’21, focused on writing international policy that promotes child protection and takes steps towards the global eradication of abuse, exploitation, trafficking, and violence against children. In committee, two resolutions, named ‘HUGGER of HOPE’ and ‘SEED GOALZ,’ successfully passed. 
“HUGGER of HOPE holistically defended the rights of girls from the perspectives of feminism and children’s rights. They specified a stringent ban on any form of sexual assault and manipulation of young girls and seek to resolve the ongoing child trafficking and sexual servitude in developing countries,” wrote Lu in an email to The Phillipian.
Lu continued, “SEED GOALZ approaches the issue of children’s rights from an economic and social perspective. They believe that economy is the key to resolving child abuse; with poverty comes a lack of education of both adults and children in a society, and while the vicious cycle of child abuse presses on, economic resolutions are the only way out.” 
Meanwhile, the JCC focused on addressing the domestic strife between the Royalists and the Insurgents during the French June Rebellion of 1832. The Royalists subcommittee, chaired by Salvador Gomez ’21 and Sophia Hlavaty ’21, passed directives to increase military support in regions affected by revolution. The Insurgents subcommittee, chaired by Lasal Mapitigama ’21 and Irene Kwon ’21, chose to infiltrate the palace of the royal family. By the end of the conference, the actions of both subcommittees ended up catalyzing an early World War I. 
Kwon said, “I really enjoyed chairing Crisis because I got to see so many actions taken that didn’t exactly happen in history. I got to see delegates exercise their creativity and play with their powers. We did things that wouldn’t really happen in GA, like we… [killed] off people, put people on trial, put spies into other committees. It was really exciting. I think being in Crisis kind of opens you to that kind of fast-paced, creative, real-world situation side of Model UN.” 
According to Gomez, the fast paced and spontaneous JCC required the four chairs to be in constant communication. 
“JCC’s are all about measuring the spontaneity and quick reaction time of delegates…. One of the big, important things about [chairing the JCC] is making sure that the four of us work together because even though we’re chairing two different rooms, it’s important that we’re in constant communication and making sure that our actions and each side have a role to play,” said Gomez.
After a suggestion from a friend, Hazel Koh ’21 decided to compete in PAIMUN and was placed in the GA. Although she was initially nervous, by the end of the last committee session she felt inspired by her fellow delegates and realized that her understanding of global affairs increased. Koh won the Outstanding Delegate award in the GA. 
In an email to The Phillipian, Koh wrote, “My PAIMUN experience was amazing. It was a huge leap out of my comfort zone, but overall, this experience truly helped me become more confident in public speaking and more knowledgeable in international law. I also loved how MUN encourages teamwork when writing resolutions; I was able to meet many new people and make friends through that aspect. Overall, it was super cool being in a room full of people who were all amazing debaters and so passionate about children’s rights.”
Not only does Model UN challenge students to reach scholastic achievement through improving their research, debate, and writing skills, but the interest also demands that students learn teamwork and the qualities of an effective leader. 
Posorske said, “The nice thing about Model UN is that you are given a person or a country to represent so when you’re speaking and coming up with ideas, it doesn’t feel like you’re exposing yourself because you are that person your role is playing, essentially. So, there’s no sense, necessarily, of rawness or personal vulnerability, which removes a lot of the risk and fear that people have with public speaking…. I think that that is a good reason to try and experiment and it’s one of the things that makes it a comfortable place for people who have never experienced public speaking or speaking in front of a crowd before.” 
Moving forward, Andover Model UN will participate in college conferences.
Posorske said, “This is our only in-house conference and historically we held a second conference in the spring for middle school students to come and compete. That’s still in deliberation. Usually, we go to Harvard MUN. The second one is unclear in terms of what it will be, but we will definitely be attending college conferences and we usually bring around 20 delegates to each.”
Editor’s Note: Sophia Hlavaty is an Associate News Editor for The Phillipian. 


________________




Interviews


Salvador Gomez ’21, Joint Crisis Committee Chair. “I started Model UN at the beginning of my seventh grade year, so that was in 2015. Last year, I was a new lower so that was my first year of PAIMUN. Now this year, I’m super excited to be back. I was in the Joint Crisis Committee last year which was about the Berline airlift and now this year I’m chairing the JCC. I had two great chairs last year. My chairs were Riley Etso and Karen Sun. Karen is now actually the Secretary General of the conference, who I’m very excited to be working with and making sure PAIMUN runs successfully. Back home I chaired a committee on U.S. senate immigration reforms which is specialized and which is very interesting because it was basically in senate style so we had delegations fitted to the Senate Majority which was the voting majority of the time and we were discussing the very hot topic of immigration. We covered the French Revolution last year in History 200 so I was kind of aware of the basics of that, but as I read the background guide, I became more and more familiar with the topic. I think it’s a very interesting topic. It’s a very focused one, but that’s how JCC’s usually work, they’re very focused and very brief in terms of time span. It’s up to the delegates to determine how the committee ends up running because they have control over what happens, what doesn’t happen, and how they decide to play everything around, which I’m very excited to see. JCC’s are all about measuring the spontaneity and quick reaction time of delegates. It’s all about being creative, being quick to respond, which I personally enjoyed when I was on Crisis committee and when I chaired the U.S. Senate committee before this. I’m definitely looking forward to seeing it. One of the big, important things about this is making sure that the four of us work together because even though we’re chairing tow different rooms, it’s important that we’re in constant communication and making sure that our actions and each side have a role to play, which I’m excited to see.”


Also Salvador, “We have our general assembly, which is what you would call normal MUN, the ones you see when you go to college conferences. It’s usually big so our GA is going to have the most delegates. The GA, which is basically a big topic, pretty much every single country. Specialized is a bit smaller than that, but still bigger than the crisis and it’s more specific. Crisis is the smallest of all of them. It’s really quick paces, it’s really about being able to control your room and the back room and playing all your angles in a crisis.”


Karen Sun ’20, Secretary General. “I started MUN my lower year, actually at this conference. This is the very first conference I ever attended. I walked in not knowing anything and I walked out just having one of the best days ever. Period. [The planning process was] so chaotic. It was super fun. It was a lot of work that I didn’t even think about having to do. For example, somebody sent me an email and was like, where do we need to park, and I was like, I even didn’t think about. I didn’t even realize that it was something that I had to organize, but overall it was a lot of work but it was really fun and putting it together and seeing it come to fruition today was so satisfying and honestly, I’m so, so proud of everything the board did to make this happen. Generally, we like to frame this conference as a very educational experience for advanced debaters to get better at debating and for new debaters to really push their limits and put themselves out there and really realize what Model UN is all about. It’s supposed to be incredibly fun, incredibly educational, and an opportunity for people to not be intimidated by others sand really take risks. Our board is so fun and so chill and we’re all so ready to help anybody who has any question ever. I think that familiarity and board love that we have makes it a really welcoming community for anyone who wants to attend.”


Grace Posorke ’20, President of Andover’s Model UN club. “I started Model UN my freshman year. I had never done that jind of debate before. I did debate when I was younger in middle school, but never Model UN. So I started when I came to Andover because I remember walking around the club rally and someone kind of shouted at me, ‘do you consider yourself a debater,’ and I considered myself a debater so that drew me in and I thought why not, I’ll try it and see how it goes. I think that since we have a very, very strong sense of companionship in our club, overwhelmingly it’s a positive culture, both internally and externally. I think that having our members go to meetings and be both engaged thoughtfully with those peers that are also in attendance, but also to joke around and to laugh and to build a sense of camaraderie with your fellow club members. I think that’s an important part of our club, our tight-knit family. I think people should do Model UN to learn how to articulate your thoughts about the world. I think it’s difficult to know how you feel about something and feel comfortable being vulnerable to express that to other people. The nice thing about Model UN is that you are given a person or a country to represent so when you’re speaking and coming up with ideas, it doesn’t feel like you’re exposing yourself because you are that person your role is playing, essentially. So, there’s no sense, necessarily, of rawness or personal vulnerability, which removes a lot of the risk and fear that people have with public speaking. You’re not embarrassing yourself and nothing is really reflective of you as a person, it’s your country or whoever you’re representing, so I think that that is a good reason to try and experiment and it’s one of the things that makes it a comfortable place for people who have never experienced public speaking or speaking in front of a crowd before.”


Also Grace “We started six months ago actually so it’s been a long ride. We started with simply sending out invitations and finding dates and then we sort of went through the more specific things that needed to be accomplished. I think that there are a lot of things that slip your mind in terms of what needs to be done, like where should people park and how much should we charge Andover students to attend the conference, but when it comes to actuality, it’s actually quite crucial. So the process was very long and drawn out and had a lot of hiccups, but it got done and it was successful.”


Also Grace “This is our only in-House Conference and historically we held a second conference in the spring for middle school students to come and compete. That’s still in deliberation. Usually, we go to Harvard MUN. The second one is unclear in terms of what it will be, but we will definitely be attending college conferences and we usually bring around 20 delegates to each.”


Irene Kwon, ’21, Joint Crisis Committee Chair. “I started Model UN in the summer of my eighth grade year, but I didn’t really get into it until I came to PA and joined the MUN club here. I attended PAIMUN my freshman year. I was in the GA. I really enjoyed chairing Crisis because I got to see so many actions taken that didn’t exactly happen in history. I got to see delegates exercise their creativity and play with their powers. We did things that wouldn’t really happen in GA, like we weren’t able to kill off people, put people on trial, put spies into other committees, it was really exciting. I think being in Crisis kind of opens you to that kind of fast-paced, creative, real-world situation side of Model UN.”


Joseph Masterson ’23. “This is the very first time I have ever don Model UN. I saw this club at the club rally and it looked really cool. This was always something I was interested in but didn’t have at my old school. I was in the General Assembly. [While attending PAIMUN,] I was thinking that this was actually pretty fun and I like this. I got to see the good, the bad, the ugly. There was some political infighting, there was some backstabbing, so it was all good fun. It was a very informational experience and I had a lot of fun. I did a lot of stuff, and I felt more confident at public speaking. It was quite a good experience in general.”


Lauren Cormier ’23. “I was in the General Assembly with no prior MUN experience. PAIMUN was really fun, it was a really cool experience. I learned all about public speaking, how to keep a topic going, how to talk to people, and how to negotiate points. It was really exciting when we all got together and tried to merge resolutions because there was a lot happening at once and we all had seen different viewpoints. Overall, Model UN was really cool.”


Hazel Koh (Email)
Why did you decide to attend PAIMUN?
MUN was always something I was interested in but never had the courage to do. With the help and encouragement of a friend (you can shout out Irene if she doesn’t mind lol), I decided PAIMUN would be the perfect opportunity to try out MUN for the first time. 


What was your PAIMUN experience like?
 My PAIMUN experience was amazing. It was a huge leap out of my comfort zone, but overall, this experience truly helped me become more confident in public speaking and more knowledgeable in international law. I also loved how MUN encourages teamwork when writing resolutions; I was able to meet many new people and make friends through that aspect. Overall, it was super cool being in a room full of people who were all amazing debaters and so passionate about children’s rights; I learned a lot from all of them!


Michael Lu (Email)
What were the resolutions that passed?
HUGGER of HOPE holistically defended the rights of girls from the perspectives of feminism and children’s rights. They specified a stringent ban on any form of sexual assault and manipulation of young girls and seek to resolve the ongoing child trafficking and sexual servitude in developing countries.


SEED GOALZ approaches the issue of children’s rights from an economic and social perspective. They believe that economy is the key to resolving child abuse; with poverty comes a lack of education of both adults and children in a society, and while the vicious cycle of child abuse presses on, economic resolutions are the only way out.


Karen Sun (Email)
schools:
Winchester
	Andover High
	Choate
	NMH
	Milton
	Weston
	Belmont
	Commonwealth
	112 people attended