Four Annual Math Open at Andover Draws 146 Local Middle Schoolers 
Melissa Damasceno & Erin Kim


BOFCXLII


The second edition of Math Open at Andover (MOAA), an annual mathematics competition for middle schoolers, took place on Saturday. This year’s competition, which took place in Kemper Auditorium and Morse Hall, hosted 28 teams composed of 146 students. 
The tournament directors for this year’s competition were Sebastian Zhu ’20, Victoria Zhang ’20, Vincent Fan ’20, and Max Tao ’20, and the program coordinators were Rachel Chang ’20 and Christina Li ’21. Zhang explained the process of organizing the event. 
“[The planning of MOAA] is a very detailed, multifaceted process, and we have to consider problems that we are going to be writing as well as what type of problems and how many different rounds of competitions we will be having,” said Zhang.
Throughout the day, the students competed in four different individual and team exhibitions: the speed round, accuracy round, team round, and the Gunga Bowl, in which teams raced to complete 24 questions in 90 minutes.
MOAA also featured a presentation by Dr. Po-Shen Loh, who coaches the United States International Math Olympiad team. Expii, an educational website founded by Loh, was a sponsor of the event and provided the prizes.
According to MOAA’s website, the goal of the competition is to promote mathematical exploration in a productive and inclusive environment. Zhang emphasized MOAA’s openness to participants from all levels of mathematical expertise. 
“I think it’s very exciting because the way we organize it is that it is accessible to students of all levels, regardless of their grade level, regardless of their background, and also what I think is especially special is that it is hosted by [Andover], one of the best high schools in the country, which shows them that you don’t have to be a mathematical genius to do anything here. This school is open to students of all backgrounds, of all capabilities, and I think that’s really special,” said Zhang.
Li feels a special connection to math competitions like MOAA, having participated in several of them during her middle school career. She enjoys promoting younger students’ interest in mathematics.
“I got my start in competition math in middle school, so it means a lot to me to help organize this event. I love being able to further middle schoolers’ passion for math because I know that if I were a middle schooler I would've loved going to a conference like this, especially at Andover because it is such an excellent school,” said Li. 
MOAA was organized in conjunction with the Math Department and Khiem DoBa, Instructor in Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science, and faculty advisor to MOAA. Zhang expressed her gratitude for DoBa and the Math Department’s support of MOAA. 
Zhang said, “The entire math department has been very instrumental because they have been very supportive of the work we’ve been doing. So even if faculty are not physically present with us here, they are present with us in spirit, if that makes sense.”
Considering the future of MOAA, Li drew upon inspiration from Phillips Exeter Academy, which has hosted a similar math competition for several years. Li hopes to mirror this longevity with MOAA’s future development.
“Exeter has one that's been going on for a long time, and I've been to that one a couple of times. And MOAA… is new. This is only our second year doing it. I really want this to be a tradition that we can do every year. Mainly because I'm an Upper this year and I'm on the board, I'm hoping to be able to help in a larger capacity next year,” said Li. 
Editor’s Note: Rachel Chang ’20 is a News Editor for The Phillipian. 
EOFCXLII


________________




Erin Kim - Transcription of Interview with Tournament Director, Victoria Zhang ’20
What goes into the planning of MOAA? 
It’s a very detailed, multifaceted process, we have to consider problems that we’re gonna write as well as like what type of problems and how many different rounds of competitions we’re gonna have. This years, we had four; we had accuracy, speed round, team round, and a Gunga Bowl round. And that’s just one aspect actually. Also, they’ll look in how we’re gonna use the facilities, for instance, do we wanna use the Chapel, or do we wanna use Kemper Auditorium, we also have to consider different people who are helping us, and there’s also an added difficulty of sponsorship because planning an event is fairly expensive, and we also wanna give these contestants a very memorable experience so it is a very multifaceted process; I’ve just said only a few of the different things you have to consider. 


How many students are expected to attend? 
We have a 146 students, around 150 students, 28 teams. 


What is the plan for the day? 
We had an opening ceremony, we also provided breakfast. After the opening ceremony, we had our competitions, so like, we gave them a bunch of tests, so like that went up until lunch time, then we provided them lunch, at following lunch, we had an invited talk by Dr. Po-Shen Loh, who is an associate professor of math at Carnegie Mellon, but he’s also the leader of the USIMO team, and under his leadership, the USIMO team has done first basically in four of the past five years. Now we’re gonna have the Gunga Bowl, which is very similar to the Harvard MIT Tournament Guts Round. So basically we give them a bunch of problems, and they have an hour and a half to figure them out. Each number is worth a different number of points depending on the difficulty. 


What’s your favorite part about MOAA?
I think it’s very exciting because the way we organize it is that it is accessible to students of all levels, regardless of their grade level, regardless of their background, and also what I think is especially special is that it is hosted by Phillips Academy, one of the best high schools in the country, which shows them that you don’t have to be a mathematical genius to do anything here; like this school is open to students of all backgrounds, of all capabilities, and I think that’s really special. 


What are you looking foward to the most? 
I’m looking forward to all the memories that we’ve cultivated over the day. 


Do you know any faculty members invovled in MOAA? 
Mr. DoBa is here for the day; he’s our faculty advisor, he’s been very prominent in helping us organize all sorts of things, I know that Mr. Lisa was around for the day as well to stick around, um I think Dr. Hickman was also here, but I’m not quite sure. I mean also the entire math department has been very instrumental, because they have been very supportive of the work we’ve been doing. So even if faculty are not physically present with us here, they are present with us in spirit, if that makes sense. 


________________




Melissa Damasceno, transcription of interview with Christina Li ’21.


What goes into the planning of the MOAA?


A lot. So, I was the director of registration, which means I had to process registrations for 150 kids, email their parents and coaches, and collect waiver forms and payments. We also had to do some graphic design for the t-shirts and also the awards presentation. We also had to get in contact with sponsors, so the professor who did the talk, Po-Shen Loh, his company Exbii sponsored us and gave us prizes. We also got RSL (Russian School of Math) to sponsor us, and they covered the t-shirts. So we had to do some outreach for that. We also had to coordinate with OPP and the administration about booking kemper and using Morse and Underwood, so just a lot of logistical stuff.


What are your roles in preparing for the event?


So we closed registration a few weeks ago, so that was when the bulk of my work ended. But I had to check people in today, this morning, and I also had to just make sure that everybody was doing okay, and was finding things. I also had to proctor, which meant that I had to make sure the kids were not cheating on the tests. 


What's your favorite part of taking part in this event?


I got my start in competition math in Middle School, so it means a lot to me to help organize this event. I love being able to further middle schoolers’ passion for math because I know that if I were a middle schooler that I would've loved going to a conference like this. Especially at Andover because it is such an excellent school. It's also really nice to work with my friends, who I've done math with for the past three years of my Andover career. So to be able to work with them, and organize this, and it's been really great watching this all unfold, and I feel like it's been pretty successful, so that's nice to see.


What were you looking forward to the most at this event?


I mean, for it to be over! If I'm honest! It's pretty stressful because there are a lot of moving pieces, and for all of that to fall in place and have the event run without any issues is the goal. And I'm pretty sure that happened today!


Do you know any faculty members involved with this event?


Yeah, so Mr. DoBa is our Math Club advisor, and he's been helpful in helping us organize this. He helped us make sure that we had the rooms in Morse booked and also booking Kemper and Underwood. He helped out with a lot of logistical things. And then we also had Mr. McHugh, and Dr. Hickman proctored and helped us stay in Morse today to make sure that the kids were okay in case any adult intervention was needed, which it wasn't, so that was good.


What was the general process of the day?


So at 8:00, we started registration, which is when everybody checks in. Then we had a small breakfast of donuts, so that was that. Then we started with an opening ceremony, where we talked a little about the competition and mentioned our sponsors, and just got everybody settled. And then after that, we all walked our teams, like the competitors. Each person was assigned to a few teams, and we walked to Morse, and then we were in charge of those few teams. So we had three rounds of testing in the morning; 2 individual rounds, which were for accuracy and speed, and then we had a team round, which was also in morse. And then we had lunch, which was pizza in the rooms. Then after that, we came over to Kemper and listened to Professor Loh's talk. Right now, we're getting ready for Gunga Bowl, which is a team bowl, and it's a live competition where basically the teams get three problems at a time, they solve them, bring them back, and get another 3. They have 24 questions total and have 90 minutes to complete them all. Then after that, we're going to do the awards. We're going to give out prizes. And then everybody's going to leave!


Do you think it's important to have events like MOAA for younger students?


Yeah definitely. I actually got my start in competition math by going to Middle School competitions like this. Exeter has one that's been going on for a long time, and I've been to that one a couple of times. And MOAA, like this one, is new. This is only our second year doing it. I really want this to be a tradition that we can do every year. Mainly because I'm an Upper this year and I'm on the board, I'm hoping to be able to help in a larger capacity next year.


What's your favorite part of the event? 


I feel like it's just being around the kids, and seeing them take part in the event that we've worked so long to organize. And just seeing our hard work pay off at the awards ceremony, because the kids are so happy when they get their awards.