Asian Society Dessert Reception Brings Andover’s Asian Population Together
Jerry Shu and Natalie Chen 


BOFCXLII


Laughter filled the Mural Room as students from all grades crowded around four separate tables, sharing “boring” facts about themselves. These truths ranged from their favorite food to their ethnic identities. As more people talked, the volume in the room continued to rise, and people began to get to know each other. 
Natalie Shen ’20, Co-President of Asian Society, commented on her surprise at the popularity of the event.
“A lot of the Asian community [at Andover] may feel shy to branch out in the beginning, but I was really surprised by the sheer amount of new kids that wanted to interact with the rest of the Asian community [at Andover]. I was just really touched by that and it gave me a lot of hope for this coming year,” said Shen. 
On Friday, Andover’s Asian Society held a dessert reception to welcome students and introduce several on-campus clubs that represent Andover’s pan-Asian community. According to Frank Zhou ’23, he did not expect the wide diversity of students present.
“I was blown away by the true depth and breadth of the Asian population on campus. I had no idea there were groups, [such as] Andover Muslim Society, [and] all of the different affinity groups from pan-Asian to the [Andover] Chinese Student Association,” said Zhou. 
Many of the people attending the event were new students. Lily Haik ’22, from Hong Kong, shared her experiences growing up surrounded by an Asian community. After arriving at Andover, she wanted to feel the same comfort with Asian students from all around the world.
According to Shen, she feels comfortable in her Asian identity at Andover and mentioned how she hopes to spread that notion of acceptance to all Andover students.
“I heard a lot of people feeling like they couldn't come to Asian Society just because they felt uncomfortable. That means to me that we haven't sent out our message properly. I want it to be a space to be inclusive, where people feel comfortable to be here,” said Shen. 
William Yu, Teaching Fellow in Physics and faculty advisor to the Asian Society, commented on the importance of hosting such an event. He emphasized the variety of perspectives from the people attending the reception.
“I want people to form meaningful connections with each other—just become more proud [and] confident in their sense of their identities… From international students who had never been to the United States before, to people like me that have [had] several generations living in the States, you realize that despite all these differences, you still have so much in common and so many shared experiences,” said Yu.
Throughout the evening, people mingled and enjoyed desserts. According to Evan Tsai ’21, his favorite moment was meeting the new students and helping them integrate into the community.
“I've been to Asian Society a few times before. I know most of the board members. I know the vibe around [there]. It's always very welcoming, very inclusive. I'm just glad that the new kids were able to meet everyone and make new friends,” said Tsai.
According to Shen, Asian Society will be at the club fair in late September, where new members can sign up for the club. In addition, they will be selling their annual Andover/Exeter shirts, as well as hosting weekly meetings on a variety of discussions related to the pan-Asian community.


EOFCXLII












































FRANK ZHOU '23


What was one thing you learned today about Asain Society that you didn't know before?


I was blown away by the true depth and breadth of the Asian population on campus. I had no idea there were groups [such as] Andover Muslim Society, all of them different affinity groups from pan-Asian to the [Andover] Chinese Student Association. I was blown away by the diversity on campus. 


What did you expect Asian Society to be before you came here?


This might sound insensitive, but I expected it to be a predominantly mainland-Asian group. But coming here today, I saw so many faces that I hadn't seen before, that I had no idea identified themselves this way. The population that chose to show up was impressive. 


How was the food?


Delicious. We had fruits and a variety of sweets, before they were all taken, of course. I saw some tarts, cookies... great event, great food.


Will you be coming to Asian Society events in the future?


I would definitely consider that. Definitely I will drop by to at least a few meetings in the future.


MR. YU, INSTRUCTOR IN MATH AND PHYSICS


What are your hopes and dreams this year for Asian Society?


Nothing too grand. I think it starts with just some basics. I think I want people to form meaningful connections with each other, just become either more proud, confident in their sense of their identities. I know that when I was at this period of time as a high schooler, I was battling a lot of that juxtaposition between my heritage and my sense of nationality. Being someone that grew up in the states, but being of Asian heritage, once I was in contact with students with a wide range of experiences from international students who had never been to the United States before, to people like me that have been several generations living in the States, you realize that despite all these differences, you still have so much in common and so many shared experiences and things that you can laugh about and just share in the fact that despite our uniqueness, there is so much we can fall back and relate to. My biggest hope and dream is for people to realize how unique they are and yet how similar they still are. A little home away from home.


How do you think Asian Society incorporates people from a pan-Asian community?


I think what's awesome is that Asian Society umbrellas just all these other Asian affinity groups. I think that's a super important space to have, where you can bring together, people of Southeast Asian descent, Indian descent, [and so forth...] I think it's really important to be just that, like a big hug. You have everyone together, and of course sometimes the East Asian groups appear dominant at times, but I think you can see that there is solid representation from the Southeast Asian groups and et cetera. I think they do a pretty good job of tackling a wide array of topics that can be uniquely relatable.


EVAN TSAI '21


What moment was your favorite?


My favorite moment was when everyone was sitting at their own respective tables, introducing ourselves to each other. It was really cool to meet not just the new Asian students, but students in general. 


What was your favorite food?


Definitely the brownies. They were really good. I see a few crumbs that maybe if you stack them up, they could make one brownie. So many people came. The Mural Room was really packed to the brim. We had to shout to have everyone be able to hear us. It was just overall a really good experience.


What did you expect?


I've been to Asian Society a few times before. I know most of the board members. I know the vibe around here. It's always very welcoming, very inclusive. I'm just glad that the new kids were able to meet everyone and make new friends.




NATALIE SHEN '20 (Co-President of Asian Society)


What did you expect coming into today? How did it go?


I think coming in, because this is an annual event, I don't really expect a lot of people because a lot of the Asian community [at Andover] may feel shy to branch out in the beginning, but I was really surprised by the sheer amount of new kids that wanted to interact with the rest of the Asian community [at Andover]. I was just really touched by that and it gave me a lot of hope for this coming year. 


What kind of hopes do you have for this year?


I think it's always about expanding and making it bigger. I heard a lot of people feeling like they couldn't come to Asian Society just because they felt uncomfortable. That means to me that we haven't sent out our message properly. I want it to be a space to be inclusive, where people feel comfortable to be here. 


How do you include people from outside just the East Asian majority?


I think it's just a), for APIDA (Asian Pacific Islander Desi American) people, so everyone that wants to associate themselves as Asian. Beyond that, it's having certain meetings that are targeted towards those people, and interacting with other clubs on campus that do that. We do have meetings that are about Southeast Asian groups and other minority groups in the Asian community.


Why is Asian Society important to you?


I think that the Asian identity is complex for a lot of people. Especially for me, Andover was the only place that I really got to feel confident about my Asian identity and have the space to actually explore it. So I think it's really important to have some space for other people. 


Why did you decide to host this meeting?


Just hosting this again, it's the idea that there is an Asian community out there for you, that wants to welcome you.


What's the next event that you guys are doing?


We're going to be at the club rally, but beyond that, we're planning to have A/E [Andover-Exeter Weekend] shirts like we did in the years before. And club meetings!


Kaeley Pierre ‘23 


Q: Can you please introduce yourself?
A: I’m Kaeley Pierre and I’m a freshman.


Q: Why did you decide to come to this event?
A: Because I’m half Asian and I want to see what’s up with this place.


Q: What do you think of the event so far?
A: Pretty cool. There are a ton of events that I’m planning to go to. 


Q: What do you think of the Asian community since you’ve been on campus so far?
A: I haven’t really interacted much with it other than a couple of friends so it hasn’t really come up that much.


Q:  Do you think this event will be good so you can feel more a part of the Asian community?
A: Probably because I’m away from home, my mom’s not around me. I can’t hang out with my mom’s family that much, who are Asian, so I want to keep that part of me active.


Hailee So ‘22 and Lily Haik ‘22 


Q: Can you introduce yourselves?
A: I’m Hailee So a new lower from Tokyo, Japan.
A: Hi, I’m Lily. I’m a new lower and I’m from Hong Kong. 


Q: Why did you guys decide to come to the event?
A:  (Hailee) I went to the Asian event because I wanted to find my home here because I love Asia, and I’m not planning to stay in the US when I grow up, so I wanted to embrace my Asian culture here.
A: (Lily) I really, really, really wanted to go because I’m half Asian and I think growing up in Hong Kong I’ve always been surrounded by Asians and they’re kind of like my family to me. Also, to be able to see these people around, across the world is very comforting and…
A: (Hailee interrupts) It’s about comfort. Because my dad’s from China and my mom’s from Japan and not only China and Japan, but I just love the Asian culture in general so I just want to feel comfortable around here.
A: (Lily) And I love Asians because I love my mom and she’s Asian.


Q: What do you guys think of the Asian community at Andover so far.
A: (Lily) Honestly, I was surprised by how many Asians there were. I had thought that the amount of Asians would be a lot slimmer because we are in America.
A: (Hailee) I thought  the Asian culture here is very diverse because there’s not only Chinse, but there’s also Korean, Vietnamese, people from Thailand, Japanese so I thought that was really interesting because in my old middle school, almost all the Asian people were either Korean or Chinese  so I really thought that was interesting.