Correcting Biases: Adrienne Keene Discusses Misrepresentations of Indigenous People in America
By Aaron Chung 


BOFCXLII


Citing examples of cultural appropriation in contemporary media and pop-culture, Adrienne Keene, Assistant Professor of American Studies at Brown University, walked her audience through misconceptions of Native American societies with a presentation in recognition of Indigenous Peoples’ Day. 
Keene’s presentation, “Native Representations, Pop Culture, and Cultural Resistance in Cyberspace,” was held in Kemper Auditorium on October 10 and marked the start of a series of presentations sponsored by Native Americans at Phillips Academy (NAPA), according to organizer Emma Slibeck ’20.  
“Half of our group’s goal was to create a safe space for Native American students on campus, and the other half was to bring more awareness to indigenous people’s modern issues. Particularly, we wanted to celebrate the diverse histories of Native Americans and our presence and existence today. While doing some research on this, I got to listen to Dr. Keene’s podcast, which led me to invite her,” said Slibeck. 
Keene began the talk by discussing how several stereotypes of Native American culture embedded in American society are overly simplified and monolithic. Keene used the example of feathered headdresses depicted in American media, and explained how stereotypes such as these are are ignorant to the diverse and complex traditions of Indigenous people. 
Keene said in her presentation, “A lot of the images that people think of indigenous people are men in feathered headdresses…. The reality is that there are more than 500 distinct native tribes in the U.S., and that there are only a few tribes that wore these headdresses. In fact, such materials are even considered sacred to them, not a daily item.” 
Additionally, Keene pointed to other American illustrations of native culture as examples of the normalization in American institutions and popular media of what she terms as blatant racial insensitivity. In particular, she emphasized the offensiveness of Native American imagery by sports teams.
“It is important to note that there are a lot of costumes of Native Americans, some even sexualizing women—these costumes stem from the stories of Peter Pan. The song, ‘What makes the red man red,’ is so awful that I cannot believe that such racial insensitivity still exists… Even prestigious universities like Stanford had an Indian mascot until 1971. Though it was changed thanks to student activism, Indian mascots are still widely used by different sports teams. The N.F.L. football team from our nation’s capital, in fact, has such a horrible name that I cannot say it,” said Keene.
Keene’s feelings surrounding the cultural prevalence of teams such as the Washington Redskins resonated with Naiya Roe ’21, an attendee of the event. 
Roe said, “A few days ago in [Paresky Commons], people sitting next to me were projecting the Washington football team’s games on the screen. While the name is incredibly racist, I don’t think that is something that crosses people’s heads when watching the football game. It is just kind of the things that we do in daily life that actively hurt indigenous people.” 
According to Keene, it is important to recognize the potential dangers brought by such 
misrepresentations in media and culture. She explained how the general increase in media consumption by the general public can lead to a propagation of harmful representations of indigeneous people. 
“We are constantly conceiving information and images in today’s society, because we are glued to our phones and devices at all times. This means that the stream of images we receive is constant, and that those images really get embedded in our brains, but there is such an invisibility of native representation, and the ones that exist are very negative. Because of our easy accessibility to information, it is important to think about how natives are represented,” said Keene. 
Keene additionally noted that the lack of authentic native representation in America correlates with less attention paid to ongoing, modern issues within different native communities. Keene referenced the modern issues surrounding gender-based violence in indigenous circles. According to the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence, indigenous women “are 2.5 times more likely to experience sexual assault crimes compared to all other races, and one in three Native American women reports having been raped during her lifetime.”
Keene continued, “They also erase our contemporary lives, painting us as a group that only existed in the past. When you erase our contemporary existence, not only does it erase our joys going on in our communities, it also erases the very struggles that we still have. If you might think we all died out in the 19th century, contemporary violence against women and our environmental issues all don’t exist.”
In an effort to combat this phenomenon of erasure, Keene recommended the audience to address others who have incorrect perceptions of Indigenous people and stressed the importance of supporting Indigenous students and communities on campus. 
Keene said, “The biggest thing is not being afraid to talk about the misrepresentation of native culture. When you see a classmate who is wearing something harmful or offensive, it is hard to address them due to the small amount of native students on this campus. I hope others have enough information to address those peers as well, in order to combat such misrepresentations on this campus.” 
According to Slibeck, NAPA plans on featuring more speakers in the future. Slibeck noted that many of the topics Keene discussed will be mentioned further in detail. 
“NAPA is working on bringing a couple more speakers in the spring. We are also looking at addressing the issue with the Washington [Redskins] football team, and bringing awareness by writing informational messages of Native Americans on Indigenous Peoples’ Day. We are also trying to get the flags of our forgotten nations, and hang them alongside the other international flags during events,” said Slibeck. 
EOFCXLII




















































________________






Adrienne Keene- Presentation and Interview


I hope they take away that representations matter, and that the ways Native people are represented in society are a reflection of the ways that people think of our struggles and communities. There is definitely space for a lot of change in that area, and there are still indigenous people here and will be there in the future. 


We are constantly conceiving information and images in today’s society, because we are glued to our phones and devices at all times. This means that the stream of images we receive is constant, and that those images really get embedded in our brains, but there is such an invisibility of native representation, and the ones that exist are very negative. Because of our easy accessibility to information, it is important to think about how Natives are represented. 


Students are in classes, learning American History, environmental science, and all different areas of studies. These are areas where indigenous people made contributions, continue to make contributions, where our knowledge are important and matter in those spaces. Students should ask their teachers for more representation of more contemporary native people. Everywhere you walk in is indigenous land. They should think more about these topics and be aware of those topics. 


The biggest thing is not being afraid to talk about the misrepresentation of Native culture. When you see a classmate who is wearing something harmful or offensive, it is hard to address them due to the small amount of Native students on this campus. I hope others have enough information to address those peers as well, in order to combat such misrepresentations on this campus. 


Presentation: 


A lot of the images that people think of indigenous people are men in feathered headdresses, historic, and fictional details. The reality is that there are more than 500 distinct Native tribes in the U.S., and that there are only a few tribes that wore these headdresses. In fact, such materials are even considered sacred to them, not a daily item


Interestingly, Google has updated their algorithm and now the research looks a lot different. Now, there are two pictures of Sharice Davids and Deb Haaland, two native women who are first elected to congress this year. Below is Paulette Jordan, a native woman elected to be the governor of Idaho. Now, there are clearly better images, which was because the Native people advocated for change. These representations really matter. 


But when we talk about native representations, we have a bunch of false things in our everyday lives that we don’t even stop to question, because it is so commonplace. You would casually image of a skull wearing a headdress in tattoos, but there were only a few tribes that wore these headdresses, and in fact, they were sacred accessories to them. When seeing this image, all I can think of is the dead Native narrative. 


Since we are heading to Halloween pretty soon, it is important to note that there are a lot of costumes of Native Americans, some even sexualizing women. These costumes come stem from the stories of Peter Pan, especially the song, “What makes the red man red,” is so awful that I can not believe that such racial insensitivity still exists. 


Even prestigious universities like Stanford had an Indian mascot until 1971. Though it was changed thanks to student activism, Indian mascots are still widely used by different sports teams. The NFL football team from our nation’s capital in fact has such a horrible name that I can not say it. 


In the history of the United States of America, the images of Native people have been part of America’s narrative since the beginning. The American colonists were trying to figure out their own identities. What happened with a lot of those colonies were that they took on the identities of indigenous people in ways that it was convenient to them. For instance, during the Boston Tea Party, the activists disguised themselves as Mohawk Indians. However, those images really came to stand in people’s minds as authentic, when the reality was that it was to fit the perception of what a Native person should be like. Overall, that was detrimental to the true images of the Natives. 


Seeing the lack of proper information that my professor and colleagues had, I decided to start a blog. Though I didn't know what I should do initially,  I have really learned about what message I am trying to provide through the years, learned how to talk about cultural appropriation. Both twitter and blogging have been tools for impacting others, as it gets thousands of comments and hundreds of retweets. As one of two native faculty members at Brown University, to have that audience and impact is really powerful. 


The most basic level of cultural appropriation is taking from culture that is not one’s own, and adding a conversation of power. It is the colonizers taking from the colonized, and so you can’t separate it from the power structure under which it exists. For Native people, we were prohibited by law to receive education in our settlements, instead sent to boarding schools for education. It also condensed hundreds of different cultures to one set of stereotypes, as they get misrepresented over and over again. 


The mottos of these schools were, “Kill the Indian and save the man.” Rather than physically eradicating all the Native people through wars, they decided that assimilation through the school system would be the solution to the “Indian problem.” Students were not allowed to speak their language, not go home, no traditional clothing. This included children as young as 3 or 4, not just high schoolers. 


They also erase our contemporary lives, painting us as a group that only existed in the past. When you erase our contemporary existence, not only does it erase our joys going on in our communities, it also erases the very struggles that we still have. If you might think we all died out in the 19th century, contemporary violence against women and our environmental issues all don’t exist.


Then this turns us into fantasy creatures. The fact that Natives are popular costume options along mythical creatures like wizards and monsters make us just look fictional. The modern American stores like Sephora and Barnes and Nobles also degrade our sacred objects into sellable items, really lessening our culture. 


Naiya Roe 2021


I knew very little about Native American culture, so I wanted to learn more about that and how they are represented in this country. 


She delivered the presentation in a way anyone can understand what she was saying. She provided clear examples of how people were appropriating the Native culture. Indeed, it was really surprising to see what this nation thought of Native American culture. 


I wish more people would come to informational presentations about Native Americans, and be aware of Native American culture here, because they seem to genuinely ignore the presence of Native Americans. 


Earlier in Commons, people sitting next to me were projecting the Washington football team’s games on the screen. While the name is incredibly racist, I don’t think that is something that crosses people’s heads when watching the football game. It is just kind of the things that we do in daily life that actively hurt Indigenous people. 




Emma Slibeck 2021 


It started last Spring, when I founded Native Americans at Phillips Academy (NAPA). Half of the group’s goal was to create a safe space for Native American students on campus, and the other half was to bring more awareness of Indigenous people’s modern issues. Particularly, we wanted to celebrate the diverse histories of Native American and our presence and existence today. While doing some research on this, I got to listen to Dr. Keene’s podcast, leading me to invite her. 


Her message of misrepresentation applies to every minority group. I find it particularly important for Native students, because there are only 5 of us out of the whole student population. We have so little representation, and the only place people are going to be hearing about Native people is in the history classroom. It is really important to acknowledge that fact, but also look at how the stereotypes that we have may affect this campus. Cultural appropriation isn’t just mocking or racism, it is the validity of people’s perceptions today. 


NAPA is working on bringing a couple more speakers in the Spring. We are also looking at addressing the issue with the Washington football team, and bringing awareness by writing informational messages of Native Americans on Indigineous People’s day. We are also trying to get the flags of our forgotten nations, and hang them alongside the other international flags during events. 


Daniel Cho ’21


I appreciated her argument about why cultural appropriation is dangerous, as she was very articulate with that part. Especially her in-depth research on how such bold assumptions may be hurtful to contemporary Native Americans really struck me, making me think about the perceptions that I may have of such people. 


My class was learning about Native American culture in English class, so I thought it would be a good addition to attend a presentation that focuses on the misrepresentation of such people.