Bruce Anderson ’90 Explores How Climate Change Will Transform the World Order
By Amber Ting and William Yue


BOFCXLII
Bruce Anderson ’90, Professor and Associate Chair of the Department of Geography and Environment at Boston University, exhibited his recent work scrutinizing how climate change contributes to atmospheric and oceanic variations on October 10. Anderson’s presentation, “The Global Gamble,” was the second talk in the Climate Cafe Series, a year-long exploration into climate change hosted by the Oliver Wendell Holmes Library (OWHL).
Anderson examined how the psychology of people discussing climate change is similar to that of gamblers. He described how the climate crisis is predicated on ambivalence derived from the “Gambler’s Conceit,” which is the fallacy where the gambler believes that they can terminate risky actions when they are ahead. Anderson connects the idea to the environment because he believes that people should disengage with behavior that is detrimental to the planet now, before the situation gets worse and ruins the planet for future generations. 
“Fossil fuels have been able to make profound advancements to society and improve the wellbeing of millions beyond measure with fairly little cost to the environment where we live. The question is: can we walk away while we’re still ahead? Or are we, instead, doomed to ‘Gambler’s Ruin,’ which is the outcome of Gambler’s Conceit…What are our options? How do we walk away? We have to recognize that now is the time to play a different game, one in which we do conserve people’s lives and livelihoods… without gambling away our children and grandchildren’s environments. It is time to walk away,” said Anderson. 
According to Anderson, the climatic conditions that effectuate the contemporary variable climate have caused an increase in the average temperature. The ramifications of the uptick in temperature reverberate in ecosystems across the globe and result in thousands of deaths. 
Anderson said, “In the 2100s, we are going to geographically migrate effectively 1,200 miles in the course of a snap. Effectively, Boston is going to move to Miami… France, in particular, in 2003, suffered a heatwave for two weeks with elevated temperatures in the 90s…70,000 additional deaths [occurred] in those two weeks from those elevated temperatures. [In] Russia, 2010, elevated temperatures again, in about the mid-90s, two weeks at the end of July, [caused] 50,000 deaths. The largest sort of mortality by far due to natural hazards is heat.”
The heat is not the only problem, however, as rising sea levels will contribute to hurricane-level flooding in cities, according to Anderson. 
“Our defenses against Hurricane Sandy held by 3 inches. Why? Because Hurricane Sandy hit at a particularly low tide. Had it come two hours earlier or two hours later… the Back Bay would have become a Bay… The expectation under a high emissions scenario ‘business as usual’ that sea-level rise for Boston in the next century will be about two meters or six feet. If you were to live sea-level by six feet and to ask how often winds or storm would inundate our current one hundred year defenses, how often would we get Sandy-level street flooding, [the answer would be] every month,” said Anderson.
Attendee Dylan Herlihy ’22 thought that Anderson succeeded in using specific scientific figures to reveal how climate change will have transformative environmental and societal repercussions on the structure of the planet. 
“The most powerful diagram for me was showing the climate movement geographically in 80 years from now. Seeing how the climate of Miami, Florida could become the climate of Boston and the climate of Vermont could become the climate of Tennessee and the images of vegetation become starkly white as well as his continuous disproving of data that suggests climate change is not as bad as it actually is,” said Herlihy.
Derek Curtis, the Programming and Digital Content Producer and Adjunct Instructor in Philosophy and Religious Studies helped to organize the Climate Cafe Series. He brought Anderson in because of Anderson’s status as an alum and expertise in the field of climate change. Curtis hopes this series will encourage Andover students to acknowledge the scientific data backing climate change, and will show how individual students can help ameliorate the crisis. 
Curtis said, “I think some of that comes down to larger-scale issues—the decisions the school makes about how we’re going to source our energy and what the school is going to do from a top-level to individual students. What do you choose to do? Are you doing any of the things he said to do to lower your carbon footprint? Shorter showers? Maybe eat meat less. All the typical things that are offered up for students to do… and in some way be models for other people... That’s crucial for this campus, and for this world in general.”
EOFCXLII






















Claire Brady ’20: An Introduction to the Speaker


Dr. Bruce Anderson is a professor and associate chair in the Department of Earth and Environment at Boston University and a recognized expert on global and regional climate variability and change. In addition, Professor Anderson actively works with the public sector on issues related to climate variability and change. [He recently served] as a member of the Boston Research Advisory Group for the city of Boston which is looking at the risks the city faces from sea level rises in coming decades. He has also served as a research consultant for the Union of Concerned Scientists Northeast Impact Science Project, an expert advisor for the Climate Change Vulnerability Assessment for Cambridge Massachusetts, and a contributing author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Assessment Report. He was one of the inaugural grant of institute for visiting fellows at Imperial College for Science, Technology, and Medicine and has also been a Royal Society Visiting Scientist, National Research Council Fellow, and MLAA Visiting Scientist. Professor Anderson has more than 75 peer-reviewed articles published or in press and has been an invited speaker for both national and international universities conferences and workshops… He received his PHD from Stimson’s Institute of Oceanography in 1998 and graduated with a BS in Physics from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1994.




________________




Dr. Bruce Anderson ’90


(on Title Explanation)


I’m calling [my presentation] the Global Warming Gamble… because there are ample warnings of where our climate of the world is headed over the next decades and centuries yet we’re continuing to roll the dice with our futures even now as we, as scientists, know the odds are stacked against us. In gambling terms, this is called Gambler’s Conceit. It’s the mistaken belief that we will know when to stop pushing our luck and get up from the table to walk away while we’re still ahead. That’s important because over the last hundred years, fossil fuels have been able to make profound advancements to society and improve the wellbeing of millions beyond measure with fairly little cost to the environment where we live. The question is can we walk away while we’re still ahead or are we, instead, doomed to Gambler’s Ruin, which is the outcome of Gambler’s Conceit… When we put carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, it doesn’t just disappear. Sulfur dioxide washes out in about two weeks through rainfall. That’s not true for carbon dioxide. It doesn’t disappear in a week. It doesn’t disappear in a decade. It doesn’t disappear in a decade. It takes more than a hundred years. When you put carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the elevated concentrations of carbon dioxide remain there for two centuries, even longer… The only way we can stabilize our concentrations is to actually reduce our emissions to near-zero values. Once we’ve reduced our emissions to near-zero values, that’s when the concentrations will first stabilize and then the natural system will convert carbon dioxide into either organic carbon or minerals in the Earth’s surface. The carbon dioxide will slowly return to lower levels and maybe pre-industrial [levels]... We are carrying out on a global scale, a millennial scale, an uncontrolled experience with the only habitable planet we know of. That’s what we’re running right now… By deciding not to do anything in the future, even with the knowledge we have now, we’re suffering from a classic case of gambler’s deceit… What are our options? How do we walk away? We have to recognize that now is the time to play a different game, one in which we do conserve people’s lives and livelihoods… without gambling away our children and grandchildren’s environments. It is time to walk away.


(on The Effects of Climate Change)


We all know that future predictions are less certain than diagnostics or explaining what’s going on now. It’s no different for the concept of climate change. There’s no reason we need to be as certain in our predictions of what’s going forward than we need to be in our explanations of what’s happening now. You run into this all the time. If there’s a 70% chance it’s going to rain today, who’s going to walk out without their umbrella? You’re going to take it out. You’re not 100% certain, but if there’s a 70% chance you might get wet, you’re going to walk out with that umbrella. That doesn’t cost you much, but let’s say you’re on an amusement park ride. There’s a 5% chance this thing’s going to run off the rails. 5%. What’s the likelihood you’re actually going to get on that ride. We all act in the face of uncertainty all the time. We will all need to do the same thing when addressing climate change.


Massachusetts’ increase in temperature sort of mirrors global ones. [In the] tropics, the temperature tends to much less. [In the] poles and the high latitudes, the temperature tends to be much greater than the global values. Massachusetts tends to resemble the globe as a whole… In the 2100s, we are going to geographically migrate effectively 1,200 miles in the course of a snap. Effectively, Boston is going to move to Miami… France, in particular, in 2003, suffered a heatwave for two weeks with elevated temperatures in the 90s… 70,000 additional deaths [occurred] in those two weeks from those elevated temperatures. [In] Russia, 2010, elevated temperatures again, in about the mid-90s, two weeks at the end of July, [caused] 50,000 deaths. The largest sort of mortality by far due to natural hazards is heat. That’s what we’re going to be facing year-in, year-out… Our defences against Hurricane Sandy held by 3 inches. Why? Because Hurricane Sandy hit at a particularly low tide. Had it come two hours earlier or two hours later… the Back Bay would have become a Bay… The expectation under a high emissions scenario “business as usual” that sea-level rise for Boston in the next century will be about 2 meters or 6 feet. If you were to live sea-level by six feet and to ask how often winds or storm would inundate our current one hundred year defenses, how often would we get Sandy-level street flooding, [the answer would be] every month.


(What do you think we, as students, and Andover, as a community, can do?)
Just be conscious every time you do something. I haven’t gone into the numbers, but I’ll give you a rule of thumb. To actually get to the 450 parts per million, to really substantiate carbon dioxide emissions over the next 40 to 50 years which is what we have to do - drive them to near zero in the next 40 to 50 years - the number is reduce them by 80%. That seems absolute atrociously impossible. Except, if you know about credit cards, if you know about compound interest, to reduce by 80% over the next 40 years requires only reducing by 3% each year… A third [of household energy] is energy. A third is transportation… If you double energy efficiency [of a refrigerator, for example], you buy yourself five years of reductions just through one purchase… Andover has to scale that up, but, as long as Andover is conscientious about it, Andover can do it.




________________




Ricarda Samwer ’22


(Why did you attend this event?)
[My friends and I] attended the last one. We thought it was super interesting because it’s like an on-going thing, we’re just going to all of them.


(Did you have a favorite part?
I thought it was interesting when he explained all the different theories and how they were disproved because it helps prove the theory that we know is true.
NOTE: REFERENCE MINUTES 18-21 




________________




Hannah Dastgheib ’22


(Why did you attend this event?)
[My friends and I] feel like climate change is a big issue, and we want to learn more about it and how we can help spread awareness to combat it because it’s a very real thing and it’s something we don’t have much time to correct.




________________




Dylan Herlihy ’22


I thought Dr. Anderson did a really solid job going over, especially, the stakes of the risks here. The most powerful diagram for me was showing the climate movement geographically in 80 years from now. Seeing how the climate of Miami, Florida could become the climate of Boston and the climate of Vermont could become the climate of Tennessee and the images of vegetation become starkly white as well as his continuous disproving of data that suggests climate change is not as bad as it actually is. 
NOTE: REFERENCE THE MINUTES AFTER 34




________________




Mr. Curtis (organizer)


(Why did you choose Dr. Bruce Anderson?)
The big picture of our Climate Cafe Speaker Series is to go from the science of climate change with graphs to policy, public policy, to youth activism and activism in general. Dr. Anderson is an alum of the school. We often bring in alum to talk. He’s obviously an expert in the field. So we thought it was kind of a win-win there, wanting to bring in an alum and wanting to bring in an expert. He called to us for both those things. In particular, being a climate scientist, he works on models. This first talk is much more built around a broad overview of the science and the history behind the science [behind climate change]. But the second talk he’s going to be giving on the 25th is much more about climate models themselves, so people can ask any type of question about climate change.


(Is there anything in particular you wanted students to take away from this talk?)
It seemed to me that he was modelling the proper amount of scientific skepticism, that you really want to go back to the data and question yourself. The data is showing us that we are moving in a rapid direction toward an extreme increase of carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere that has a bad effect for our environment. The other thing would be that people need to show up. It’s our intentions. It’s what we do, our daily actions, what we pay attention to that changes things.


(How do you think all of these issues manifest on campus?)
I think some of that comes down to larger-scale issues - the decisions the school makes about how we’re going to source our energy and what the school is going to do from a top-level - to individual students. What do you choose to do? Are you doing any of the things he said to do to lower your carbon footprint? Shorter showers? Maybe eat meat less. All typical things that are offered up for students to do… and in some way be models for other people. Sometimes I think students can be models for adults. Adults can be very set in their ways while students, young people in general, are willing to try things and try to be more ecologically conscious. That’s crucial for this campus, for this world in general.