“Whose Land Are You On?”: Chalk Writings Bring Awareness to Indigenous People’s Day


BOFCXLII
Written in chalk, phrases like “Columbus is a murderer,” and “Whose land are you on?” appeared across campus on the morning of Indigenous People’s Day. Students walking to class saw these messages in front of buildings like Paresky Commons, Morse Hall, and George Washington Hall. 
Emma Slibeck ’20 and Tomafa Ticeahkie ’21, Co-Heads of the affinity group Native Americans at Phillips Academy, organized these messages to raise awareness about the celebration of Columbus Day and the fact that Andover is built on the traditional land of the Wabanaki and Naumkeag peoples.
Slibeck believes that the erasure of indigenous communities from history still permeate modern society. She explained that two of the phrases, “Whose land are you on?” and “Know their name: Naumkeag and Wabanaki,” aimed to show Andover’s complacency and silence on Indigenous issues.
“We [wanted] to really draw attention to whose land [Andover] was built on. [Andover] was built on the unseated land of the Wabanaki and Naumkeag peoples, and I don’t think anybody could tell me that. I couldn’t even tell you that until a week ago or so. I think the ‘Whose land are you on?’ was the big thing that we had around, because people don’t really think about it,” said Slibeck.
While Slibeck appreciates that the chalk has sparked conversation on campus, she was frustrated by some negative responses. One of the “Columbus is a murderer” messages outside GW was defaced; the word “murderer” had been anonymously wiped and washed away.
“Someone had smudged out the word murderer and poured water on it, which is [definitely] frustrating... It doesn’t take away from what [Columbus] did or the legacy that he left behind, and it was really disheartening to see that on our campus, someone actively smudged it out. That was the most negative response I got,” said Slibeck. 
The chalk reminded Ariel Wang ’21 of Dr. Adrienne Keene’s talk, “Native Representations, Pop Culture, & Cultural Resistance in Cyberspace,” which happened on October 10. Wang expressed disappointment that she hadn’t known about the Wabanaki and Naumkeag land before, despite having been an Andover student for three years. 
“That was the first time I heard someone do a land acknowledgement. [Ticeahkie] and [Slibeck talked about it] before the presentation, and I feel like I should have known about that a long time ago. I should have known whose land I was on a long time before three years after being here, so that was a reminder in a way,” said Wang. 
In her talk, Keene noted that students play a role in bringing awareness to historical omission. She also emphasized the responsibility that people have in being aware of the history of land in America, as well as the contemporary contributions and representations of Indigenous people.
“Students are in classes, learning American history, environmental science, and all different areas of studies. These are areas where indigenous people made contributions, continue to make contributions, where our knowledge is important and matters in those spaces. Students should ask their teachers for more representation of more contemporary native people. Everywhere you walk in is indigenous land. They should think more about these topics and be aware of those topics,” said Keene. 
EOFCXLII


________________




Students are in classes, learning American History, environmental science, and all different areas of studies. These are areas where indigenous people made contributions, continue to make contributions, where our knowledge are important and matter in those spaces. Students should ask their teachers for more representation of more contemporary native people. Everywhere you walk in is indigenous land. They should think more about these topics and be aware of those topics. 


Emma:


Tomafa and I are the cofounders of NAPA, and we organized the chalking. We did enlist a bunch of people to help write the actual chalk because we needed to do it before people started moving around for class. But, it was mostly because Monday was Indigenous Peoples’ Day, and Massachusetts still celebrates Columbus Day, which isn’t okay. Columbus Day is a national holiday whether or not states recognize it too, which also isn’t okay. To bring awareness to the fact that this isn’t just a random day, that this day also carries a lot of history and that history is painful, and to acknowledge not that there are still indigenous people here, but that there are indigenous people in the future and that’s who we should be looking out for. So we had a bunch of different things: 4 out of 5 indigenous women experience violence in their lifetime, we had a list of all the states that celebrate Columbus Day, and we had phrases like Columbus is a murderer, and Whose land are you on? to really draw attention to whose land Phillips Academy was built on. Phillips Academy was built on the unseated land of the Wabanaki and Naumkeag peoples, and I don’t think anybody could tell me that, and I couldn’t even tell you that until a week ago or so. I think the Whose land are you on? was the big thing that we had around because people don’t really think about it and there wasn’t a lot of acknowledgment of Indigenous Peoples’ Day at all either, and there’s hardly ever anything about that around campus or modern issues faced by native people, so that was our goal to raise awareness and to get them thinking about these things: Whose land is Phillips Academy on? What does celebrating Columbus Day actually mean?


When I was touring another campus, it was Columbus day, and I saw the chalkings on their campus about Whose land are you on and that really stood out to me because as a Native American person, it felt like there was visibility and indigenous issues weren’t considered as an issue of the past, which was really important. That’s what inspired me, and because this school doesn’t do an acknowledgment. We don’t celebrate Columbus Day, sure, but there’s no acknowledgment of Indigenous Peoples’ Day or why we don’t celebrate Columbus Day and why we shouldn’t. This was our response to that.


For the most part, when people recognize it, they’ll come up to me and ask “Oh, was that you,” and I’ll say “Yea, Tomafa and I did the chalkings,” so that’s been really great, that people are seeing them and thinking about it, and also saying “Oh, that’s really cool, I didn’t think about those things either.”


There was also one thing which I found really frustrating. Outside of GW, we had written “Columbus is a murderer,” which is true, you can’t deny that. Someone had smudged out the word murderer and poured water on it, which is frustrating but true. It doesn’t take away from what he did or the legacy that he left behind, and it was really disheartening to see that on our campus, that someone actively smudged it out, so that was the most negative response I got. But there were a lot of people that also responded in weird, smart-ass comments. One of my favorite phrases we’ve had was outside of Commons which was “History didn’t start when colonialism did,” and the other one outside of the library which I liked was “There are indigenous people in the future,” and Dr. Keene was talking about this at her talk on Friday, about yes, she likes the phrase “we’re still here,” in reference to Indigenous people, but it also implies that we’re not going to always to be here, but there always going to be indigenous people. We’re still here, and we are going to be here, which is why we use that phrase. I also really liked the “Whose land are you on” because it was simple and people questioned it, like “I don’t know?” There were a lot of smart-ass replies that were frustrating. But I feel like people are connecting and engaging with the comments in some way, at least.


Ariel Wang ’21


The first one I saw was in front of Bulfinch, “Whose land are you on?” And I went to Dr. Adrienne Keene’s speech, her presentation. And that was the first time I heard someone do a land acknowledgement. Tomafa and Emma did it before the presentation and I feel like I should have known about that a long time ago. I should have known whose tribe, whose land I was on a long time before three years after being here so that was a reminder in a way. I saw one [message] in front of GW that said Columbus is a something, and then someone blurred out. 
(Interviewer: it said Columbus is a murderer)
Was it murderer? That’s good. I’m surprised it was blurred out, well actually, maybe I am surprised, maybe I am not, but I didn’t know what it said because it was blurred out by the time I saw it.