A Focus on Building Skills Strengthens Team Cultur[a]e on JV1 Boys Soccer


BOFCXLII
According to Sam Elliott ’22, Andover Boys JV1 Soccer team currently holds a 4-2 record because of a number of standout players.
“Our team has generally performed well, and has been greatly helped by a few star players. [Josh Park ’22] as Striker is the leading goal scorer for our team, and his foot skills and shooting prowess has definitely led to many of our goals. [Leo von Bernuth ’22], at the center mid position, is a new Lower from Sao Paulo, Brazil, who has been an integral part of our team,” said Elliott. 
The boys soccer program has Varsity, JV1, JV2, and JV3 teams, making it the only program on campus that extends to a third Junior Varsity team. According to Elliott and Kris Aziabor ’22, [Co-Captains] Nic Lam ’22, Max Guan ’22, and Josh Park ’22 comprise a crucial portion of the skillset JV1 has to offer. 
“They are the only returning players on JV1, and they definitely up the skill level on our team. Each display their leadership in different ways,” said Elliott. 
Aziabor said, “They have been great leaders on and off the pitch. From leading the warmups to giving the team advice on how to enhance our game, they work hard to make sure everyone is at their best. On the field, they are consistent starters. I think the most important thing they have done as captains has been lifting the team. They ensure that everyone that is on the field and also on the bench is tenacious thanks to their passion of winning.”
So far, the team has been proficient at moving the ball up the field to create space and opportunities to score, according to Kris Aziabor ’22.
“I believe that on the field we have excelled at passing out from the defensive line and creating many chances. We have never failed to score in a match, and in most matches we score 4-5 goals,” said Aziabor. 
During practice, the team focuses on game-like drills, developing foot skills and using the home field to its advantage, according to Marcus Sapuppo ’23.
“We’ve been working a lot on passing the ball quickly and hanging on to the ball for less time. In practice, we do a lot of possession [drills] because...those who can play quickly and control the game are the ones who will win the game. Also, our home field is very uneven so we do a lot of basic skills drills such as shooting and passing because it’s always good to develop in those areas, but also to make sure we have the upper hand when it comes to playing on unpredictable fields, or our slanted, bumpy, home field,” said Sapuppo. 
The team will look to increase its level of play during the rest of the season, according to Aziabor. 
“The intensity has certainly increased over the past days but there’s more to come. I fully believe in this team and think that despite our great start, our best performance is yet to come,” said Aziabor. 
EOFCXLII






Sam Elliott ’22:
This season our team has gone 4-2-0, with losses to both Milton and St. Pauls. Our team has generally performed well, and has been greatly helped by a few star players. Josh Park at Striker is the leading goal scorer for our team, and his foot skills and shooting prowess has definitely led to many of our goals. Leo, at the center mid position, is a new lower from Sao Paolo, Brazil who has been an integral part of our team. Our center backs Cory  and Nolan have been super important for our team in the backfield. They are two of the taller players on our team, and are constant hard workers that have stepped up and are undoubtedly leaders on our team.
Our captains are Nic Lam, and Max Guan and Josh Park. They are the only returning players on JV1 and they definitely up the skill level on our team. Each display their leadership in different ways. Max is a hard worker who displays leadership in his play. He is not very vocal, but he inspires the team everyday by showing up and working his ass off.






Kris Aziabor ’22:
I believe that on the field we have excelled at passing out from the defensive line and creating many chances. We have never failed to score in a match, and in most matches we score 4-5 goals. Our success up front is hugely down to our attackers (players like Joshua Park and Nic Lam) but the midfield and the defense have been instrumental to the forwards‘ success in front of goal. The captains on the team are Joshua Park, Nicolas Lam, and Max  Guan. They have been great leaders on and off the pitch. From leading the warmups to giving the team advice on how to enhance our game, they work hard to make sure everyone is at their best. On the field, they are consistent starters and have many responsibilities. However, I think the most important thing they have done as captains has been lifting the team. When we are down , they make sure everyone’s heads are lifted. They ensure that everyone that is on the field and also on the bench is tenacious thanks to their passion of winning.
Although I didn’t play the whole season with the JV1 team last year, I thought that the togetherness of the team has improved. As a freshman, last year, I felt that I didn’t have a good relationship with all my teammates (I didn’t even know everyone’s name). But this year, I think that the players of all classes/grades are more unified and together. Everyone wants to win and become better soccer players, and the atmosphere around the team reflects that.
With all the great things that we have to our disposal as a team, we also have things to work on. I think that we need more accountability and intensity across the line (including myself). When a ball is lost or someone makes a mistake, we as a team need to realize that’s it is everyone’s responsibility to win the ball back. Chastising people for their mistakes or leaving teammates to defend all by themselves will only worsen the outcome, so people should focus on recovering the ball.


The coaches have stressed that we need to train like it is a match because when matchday comes, it will be extremely hard to find good form if we don’t replicate in surfing  the practices. The intensity has certainly increased over the past days but there’s more to come. I fully believe in this team and think that despite our great start, our best performance is yet to come.


Marcus Suppupo ’23:
. From the beginning we were already a very connected team. We started out with a lot of chemistry and we’ve been building our connections ever since 
Soccer wise, most of us have good foot skills and are talented with one on one situations and we’ve been working a lot on passing the ball quickly and hanging on to the ball for less time keeping the game fast and too fast for our opponents.
In practice we do a lot of possession because the coaches believe that those who can play quickly and control the game are the ones who will win the game 
Also, our home field is very uneven so we do a lot of basic skills drills such  as shooting and passing because it’s always good to develop in those areas but also to make sure we have the upper hand when it comes to playing on unpredictable Fields, or our slanted, bumpy, home field. 






[a]meh