BXC SECURES 4TH PLACE VARSITY TEAM FINISH AT INVITATIONAL
BOFCXLII
Besting his time trial result from the previous week, Sam Capobianco ’21 placed 21st in the Varsity race with a time of 18:06 to help Andover Boys Cross Country win fourth place in the Bobcat Invitational on Sunday. 
“I think [Capobianco] might have been the only one on the entire team who ran faster than the time trial, which is saying something. He had a really good race, and he tackled those hills with confidence, and it clearly showed. He came to compete and he passed a lot of people. He came 21st–almost there to getting a medal,” said Captain Alex Fleury ’20, who placed fourth overall in the varsity race with a time of 17:04.
The Bobcat Invitational served as the team’s opening meet, and it was the first time anyone on the team had ever competed on the course, according to Fleury. 
“The meet had a wonderful energy. The meet director said that many consider the Bobcat course ‘the toughest in New Hampshire,’ so it was an excellent early-season challenge for our team,” Head Coach Patrick Rielly wrote in an email to The Phillipian. 
The course and race environment had a similar setup to Interschols at the end of the season, allowing the team to get a feel for that type of environment, according to Rielly.
Reilly said, “In order to prepare for Interschols, which is a multi-team invitational meet, we wanted to get some experience racing against a large field of runners. Bobcat has been a great meet for many years, and since it always features great competition, we were thrilled to join the event.”
According to Harrison Wilson ’20 and Anthony Minickiello ’20, the course was a challenge that mimicked the hills at Northfield Mount Hermon, where the team will compete in two weeks and at Interschols.
“It's necessary to really dig in and put in a constant effort. It's not necessarily about who has the fastest legs or the speediest times. One really has to be able to maintain their speed and use their endurance to just go up and down the rolling hills of a course like this,” said Wilson.
The team has a lot of depth in its Varsity and JV squads, according to Wilson. 
“Our depth is especially beneficial this year because we have a range of underclassmen. We have a good group of about four to five Seniors that's pretty strong, and beyond that we have a couple of Uppers, a [Junior], and new people who continue to ensure the strength of our program,” said Wilson.
He continued, “Will Hetherington ’20 comes to mind. He ran in the JV race up at the front for a majority of the race. He really put in a good effort this weekend. He ran the JV race, but I know he's capable of moving up to the Varsity squad and I think this race was a really good demonstrator of his progress and of the people beyond the top seven who can fill in and help the team.”
The team will focus its training on preparing for the NMH Invitational on September 28, which will set a standard for Interschols.
“I'm not sure what Coach Rielly has in mind, but we'll definitely train for the next few weeks ... hills, definitely some tempo sort of stuff, and try to stay on the grass as much as possible, not only to emulate the course at NMH, but just to keep the pressure of running on hard surface off our feet,” said Fleury. 
The team will compete in the NMH Invitational on the 28.


EOFCXLII


________________


TRANSCRIPTIONS


Harrison Wilson ’20
The coaches described this course as grind-y... It's necessary to really dig in and put in a constant effort. It's not necessarily about who has the fastest legs or the speediest times. One really has to be able to maintain their speed and  use their endurance to just go up and down the rolling hills of a course like this.


Will Hetherington '20 comes to mind. He ran in the JV race up at the front for a majority of the race. He really put in a good effort this weekend. He ran the JV race, but I know he's capable of moving up to the varsity squad and I think this race was like a really good demonstrator of his progress and of the people beyond the top seven who can fill in and help the team.


Our depth is especially beneficial this year because we have a range of underclassmen. We have a good group of about four to five seniors that's pretty strong, and beyond that we have a couple of uppers, a freshman, and new people who continue to ensure the strength of our program.


Considering it was my first last race, I'm empowered to impart a lot of wisdom to the rising members of the team. I had so many memories flood my mind before the race and think about the people in PAXC that have gotten me to this point. I've had so many amazing mentors and role models on the team. I hope I can just be that for someone else. 


Captain Alex Fleury ’20
Nobody had [run the course] before at PA, and it was up at an apple orchard in New Hampshire. It was a new and [a] super hilly course, probably the hilliest course that we will run on this season.


It's very similar to NMH – the course that we're doing interschols at – and it's good practice for that course. [I]t was hot today. [There was] a lot of great competition ... about 25 schools there. 


Like I said, [it was] very hilly, like rolling hills throughout most of the course. I think the energy surrounding today's meet ... people ... anticipated a tough course and it was tough, but it was tough for everybody, and I think our team performed very well even despite these conditions, and despite having a lot of people there. It was a great experience and just a great workout. We'd be in much better shape afterwards. 


Being pretty early in the season and not having raced the course before, two weeks before NMH Invitational, the motto behind this race was just to compete and put in a good effort... pushing ourselves, too. It wasn't a super high stakes meet at all, like Coach Rielly said, and it was just to get out there and see where we're at, to get out there and compete. That was a big word of the day that Coach Rielly kept emphasizing: compete. And just have fun while we're at it, but also get experience racing against a lot more schools earlier on in the season than before, which is good. 


I think a takeaway from the day is [that] we have a deep team, especially our top 10 is very strong, because we were missing our post grad Chris [Ratcliffe], who's very good, and Michael Turner ['20] who also wasn't able to make it. He is also very good. We still did very well as a team. Everybody performed well despite the hot conditions. [Some] takeaways [are] that we should have, especially our main competition is Exeter. They swept all four races at the meet, so they're going to be good, but I think that as we train, we will be more used to those hills, especially from running in Andover, a hilly town. So, we'll be ready to beat Exeter at Interschols. 


I think that Sam Cabobianco ['21] did really well in his individual race. He definitely ran faster than his time trial last week. I think he might have been the only one on the entire team who ran faster than the time trial, which is saying something. He had a really good race, and he tackled those hills with confidence, and it clearly showed. He came to compete and he passed a lot of people. He came 21st – almost there to getting a medal. 


We're going to train hard through the next two weeks up until the NMH Invitational. We'll definitely get in a lot of good hills. We're going to the sanctuary – glad that's open to get in some hill training because we have nice rolling hills in the sanctuary, so we'll do reverse log cabins. That's a good one that we usually do. We'll also get out there, maybe do some threshold pieces. I'm not sure what Coach Rielly has in mind, but we'll definitely train for the next few weeks ... hills, definitely some tempo sort of stuff, and try to stay on the grass as much as possible, not only to emulate the course at NMH, but just to keep the pressure off of running on hard surface off our feet. 


I think that we're using the Invitational to [run] the course, I think, three times; run it for warm up, race, and then cool down on it. We'll really get to feel the course and really get – especially for the new runners – a sense of what the course is and how it's a hard course. They'll get a sense of how similar the race we went to [in New Hampshire] to this course, and really just getting there to compete. And [we'll] also gauge how good the other teams are, as well, which will be good just to see the competition early and also just to see the course.  


Anthony Minickiello ’20
This course had plenty of rolling hills like the one in Northfield, so the absence of level ground generally made the race a harder grind. This meet stands out from other races because of the large (100+ runners per section) field sizes. However, what normally accompanies big meets like this one is the high pressure of championships, but that this race was the first of the season made it less serious and more fun.


Alex Fleury, my captain, tore up the course, as per usual, leading our team to an award. I also give major kudos to Sam Capobianco for a stellar first season performance and what I believe was a second place finish on the team as an upper.


I take away that I presently have plenty of endurance but not the speed to compete with my personal best. I also feel safe in saying that the team felt the grueling, final hill catch it off guard. I doubt many of us were truly satisfied with our performances, but given that we raced on a hell of a course while the season was young, we cannot rightfully be too hard on ourselves.


Watching the opening stretch of the boys JV race was fun. It was an aggressive start. A cloud of kicked up dust rose in the distance as the stampede of runners sped into the woods.


Coach Rielly
In order to prepare for Interschols, which is a multi-team invitational meet, we wanted to get some experience racing against a large field of runners. Bobcat has been a great meet for many years, and since it always features great competition, we were thrilled to join the event.


The meet had a wonderful energy. The meet director said that many consider the Bobcat course "the toughest in New Hampshire," so it was an excellent early-season challenge for our team.


Our word of the meet was compete. I hoped that our runners would use the race as an opportunity to test their training on a tough course with great competition. They definitely delivered with some fantastic performances.


I hope that starting the season at Bobcat will help us prepare for Interschols in terms of staying focused and competitive in a large field of runners.


I'm so impressed with the performances of the team after a hard two weeks of training. The race was a strong start to what I suspect will be a positive trajectory to November.