Ariel Wang ’21 Makes Big Leaps as a Versatile Musician 


BOFCXLII
Ariel Wang ’21 was only two years old when she started playing the piano at her kindergarten. She started participating in competitions at age seven, and at age nine, she joined the school band as a flutist. Since then, Wang has collected many prestigious awards and accolades for both piano and flute, including being one of the youngest people to have been named Canada’s “30 Under 30” top classical musicians for Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) this summer. 
Derek Jacoby, Instructor in Music and Wang’s flute instructor, said, “It was extremely impressive because when you read through the article, I believe they did it by age, so you’re kind of scrolling down and she’s near the bottom because she’s so young. If you think of people all the way up to age thirty, most of them were well into their twenties and she’s on that list.” 
When she’s at Andover, Wang practices her instruments for anywhere from one to six or seven hours. Wang will be performing a piano solo in Carnegie Hall in November after winning the American Fine Arts Association competition this past June. 
Fellow musician and friend Luke Henderson ’21 is impressed by Wang’s motivation and high level of skill in both the flute and piano.
“The fact that she plays two instruments, the piano and the flute at such a high level is amazing. It’s really cool to know that people I have worked with and people I go to school with are part of such big things,” said Henderson.
Many of Wang’s peers and teachers recognize her talent and versatility as a musician. According to Jacoby, he feels confident when giving a difficult piece to Wang, knowing she would work hard and be able to play it. 
Classmate Evan Tsai ’21, a bassist and cellist, said, “I think the amount of effort she puts into her playing and the virtuosity she displays during not just performances, but also rehearsal really sets her apart from other pianists.”
Wang cites Michelle Obama as a major source of inspiration in both her life and her music, mentioning a passage in Obama’s memoir about how music gave her a peaceful home-like environment. She also credits classical pianist Evgeny Kissin and pop artist Beyonce as sources of inspiration for her music. According to Wang, one morning before a competition, she was watching Beyonce’s documentary “Homecoming” for motivation.
“I think that it was a source of confidence, as the piece [I was going to play] was really big and grandiose. [The classical pianist] Kissin, as well as Beyonce...helped me. I don’t think I’m a very big person. My hands are small [and they] kind of broke playing the piece, but it was the energy of [Beyonce and Kissin’s] performances that carried me through,” said Wang. 
According to Wang, she wants music to remain a major part of her life during college and in adulthood, despite her numerous other interests.
“I have a lot of interests that don’t relate to music at all … [but] the lessons that it has taught me has carried me through everything else. I hope when I go to college and when I’m an adult and have a job that I can practice and share it the way I do now. I don’t know if that will be possible, but that would be my dream,” said Wang.
EOFCXLII
________________


Dr. Meghan Jacoby: 
I’ve worked with Ariel since her freshman year here at Andover so we’re going into our third year working together. She’s an extremely dedicated music student on both flute and piano. I teach her flute only, but she’s very dedicated and serious with both instruments. She works hard, she practices a lot, she’s very musical, she has sort of all of the right qualities to make a very strong musician.


Yeah, she’s improved a lot since her freshman year and she’s worked a lot on some of the fundamental flute playing that we’ve worked like her tone and her technique and some very specific flute things that I won’t go into in this interview, but she’s worked very hard on those and she’s just come a long way developing her flute skills. Last year she won a concerto competition with one of the orchestras in the Boston area so she got to perform a solo with that orchestra which was really great and this summer she went as a flutist to Boston University Tanglewood Institute which is one of the best music programs for high school musicians in the country so she spent a week there before she went to Eastern Music Festival for piano which is where she won a big competition this summer. 


Yeah, I was pleasantly surprised that she sent me a text this summer and said “Dr. Jacoby, look, I got on this list” and it was extremely impressive because when you read through the article, I believe they did it by age so you’re kind of scrolling down and she’s near the bottom because she’s so young. If you think of people all the way up to age 30, most of them were well into their 20s and she’s on that list so she was maybe the bottom 2 or 3 so she was definitely one of the younger ones, and she’s listed on it as a flutist and pianist so it was very exciting to see.


I got the sense when I first met her that she’s extremely driven, and she asked me in the first few lessons, “What are some opportunities that I can do for youth orchestra and for competitions” so right away I knew that she was really eager to get better and really eager to look and search for opportunities that would help her develop as a musician.


Absolutely, yes. To become a musician, there’s of course, we want some bit of talent, but that only goes so far so you really need the work ethic and you need the determination and motivation and she has all of those things. 


I think she has played piano since she was extremely young. I think she was 2 or 3. She was very, very little. It’s not possible to start the flute when you are that young so she started the piano that little and that often gives musicians a really solid foundation in terms of music reading and rhythm reading and how chords are structured and so she definitely brings that to her flute playing, that knowledge of harmony that you get from piano and that you don’t necessarily get from a single line instrument.


She has really solid technique on both flute and piano, but she works hard at it, but for her to play something that’s technically challenging, I always know that she can accomplish that with hard work. With some students there’s a limit, you know you can think that this piece is just going to be too hard for where the student is right now, but with Ariel I always feel confident that I can give her this piece, she’s going to work, and she’s going to be able to play it. 


Yeah, so the competition that she won last year, it was with the Waltham Philharmonic Orchestra and she played the Carmen Fantasy which is sort of a big, virtuosic showpiece for flute and it starts with a lot of the main melodies from the opera Carmen and then the composer writes all of these variations where they just get crazier and crazier as the piece goes on and it’s just supposed to show off your technique and she really was able to do that and in the concert and in the performances and in the rehearsals leading up to that, she was able to really show off what she can do which is fun to see from a young student.


I think if she wants to pursue music as her profession, she could do that. I think that she has the right work ethic and she’s got the right attitude and she’s got the right skill set that if she continued to work as hard as she does now, she could get into music school if she wanted to and she would be successful as a professional musician. 


Luke Henderson ‘21: 
So in our first year, we were in a piano quintet, that’s the first thing we played, which is a string quartet, violin, violin, viola, cello, piano, and then last year we were in a piano quartet, 2 piano quartets in chamber music where the piano writing is really difficult, more so than any of the other parts, and usually that means that the performance is dictated by the pianist and everything revolves around that, but since she’s so technically capable, she’s able to key in to the rest of the group.   


Evan Tsai ‘21: 
I think the amount of effort she puts into her playing and the virtuosity she displays during not just performances, but also rehearsal really sets her apart from other pianists. 


Luke Henderson ‘21: 
And the fact that she plays two instruments, the piano and the flute at such a high level is amazing. It’s really cool to know that people I have worked with and people I go to school with are part of such big things, right? 


Evan Tsai ‘21: 
And I think it’s great that we’re surrounded by such successful people.  


Ariel Wang ‘21: 
Q: Ok can you give a quick introduction of yourself?
A: I’m Ariel Wang, class of 21. 


Q. Alright so on campus you take flute lessons with Dr. Jacoby with the principal flutist in the chamber orchestra and you play in the chamber groups. Do you play flute in the chamber group?
A: I don’t I play piano in chamber groups
Q: Ok, off campus you study piano at the new england conservatory? 
A: yes
Q: Is that a good overview of your involvement with music? Is there anything you’d like to add to that? 
A: Yes that’s it.
Q: Great. How often do you participate in competitions what’s your how do you approach it, how do you find them. Do you have a list or do you have teachers that suggest them?
A: I’ve been doing competitions since I was seven and it’s very useful for deciding what pieces to play and getting a broad range of things to learn especially I have a lot time to learn right now as a student. But it’s a mixture of how I happen to come about them or teachers recommend them and maybe if I have a year? 
Q: How much time do you spend each week on music, practicing?
A: For my own outside of lessons and rehearsals they’re usually  just the time I have left out of each day when I’ve done my homework and classes and every extracurricular. The rest of the time that's what I spend practicing.
Q: In terms of hours how much time is that?
A: Hours? When school starts probably one, one a day.
Q: So when you’re preparing for competitions and stuff when it gets intense how much does it get up to?
A: It can get up to 6 or 7 but that’s not during school.
Q: So you’ve been playing since you were 2 right?
A: Yes.
Q How did you first start? 
A: So I went to kindergarten. Ok so I went to school in Shanghai and kindergarten starts when you’re three and its three years long and my kindergarten was founded by a chinese pianist so everyone was required to take piano. So then when I was 2 I took piano in school and I never quit it because I spent so much time on it by the time I graduated kindergarten so yeah that’s how I started piano. 
Q: So there are any other influences other than going to a school I know the CDC had a thing about parents in the beginning are there any other outside influences? 
A: I’m the first person in my family doing music really. I think because I started at such a young age I don’t remember a time when I haven’t been playing music when music wasn’t a big part of my life. So I don’t know I just never thought about not having it.
Q: So you’ve also been playing flute since you were 9. How did that start?
A: That was I wanted to be in my school band as a flute player and my piano teacher at the time her daughter was a flute teacher. So the year before I was supposed to be at band at school I started taking lessons with her just to prepare for band. But the funny thing once I got to school the school band it was at a level everyone was just starting to learn flute and I already played for a year so I ended up quitting band because of that.
Q: Hmm cause you were too good for it?
A: No, everyone was learning. Everyone were beginners. 
Q: I asked you in the email about your top 5 most proud things. Could you go over them?
A: So first would be the Canadian music competition it’s a really big part of my life since I've been in canada since age 7 I've been doing it every single year. I started not making it past the 2nd round and then eventually the last time I did it was 2 years ago freshman year and I got 1st place in the flute category and then the year before that I got 3rd place in piano. That's where I met many of the musicians that are still in my life. I still see at competitions. 
Q: So would you say flute is your main instrument? 
A: I’d say piano is my main instrument. Both are so different cause you don’t play piano in orchestra and stuff like that. 
Q: Could you go over the other things on the list?
A: I’ve played with orchestra as a soloist 6 times on both piano and flute and most recently this summer on piano. It’s my favorite part of being a musician playing as a soloist with an orchestra cause for me for piano especially, you make a lot more sound and you feel like you really have a big part and you feel part of the music when you play with orchestra so it’s my favorite thing.
Q: So onto the CDC 30 hot musicians under 30. Was that your proudest accomplishment this summer? 
A: Yes
Q: What does it mean to you have been selected?
A: The list is full of so many good people. People I look up when I read their stuff and its so funny so fun that I get to be there and people get to read about me and I get to share my accomplishments. Also it made me realize how small the music world was cause a lot of people I realize I have so many connections to that I just haven’t met yet. 
Q: What do you mean by that?
A: That we go to the same schools we went to the same camp people yeah.
Q: Just like people you’ve seen elsewhere? 
A: yeah and we could celebrate that cause you don’t know everything, you don’t know about everyone when you meet them and that was really cool too.
Q: How were you selected? Did someone nominate you? 
A: Yeah, I was nominated by a teacher in canada but then in July-ish they let me know I was going to be on the list.
Q: What was it like finding out?
A: I didn’t expect it, I've known a few people who’ve made the list so it’s an honor to be considered among them. And it was really cool answering questions and realizing people wanted to hear about me and my accomplishments. 
Q: Onto the eastern music festival can you give me an overview of the program what it is and how you learned off of it? 
A: It’s a 5 week program in north carolina with mostly orchestras so . There’s 2 student orchestras and 14 people are in the piano program. And we as a pianist I didn’t get to play in the orchestra but I got to watch their rehearsals all the time and as a pianist we have seminars and we take lessons. The faculty there are really kind and helpful and taught me a lot over the 5 weeks. But as a pianist I wasn’t in the orchestra but it really meant a lot to me when I got to play with orchestra and be in the rehearsals. 
Q: What was the concerto competition like. So was that among all the orchestra members and pianists.
A: Yeah we started off with like 50 people and we ..its with the whole program the orchestras people with all the instruments. It was 2 rounds the 1st sunday and the 2nd sunday. By the 2nd round there were maybe 14 people and a lot of them are my friends now.
Q: Can you talk about the piece you played?
A: I played Rachmaninoff Second Concerto which is a really gorgeous concerto. I played the first movement. Yeah, it’s a really fun piece to play with an orchestra.
Q: It’s a little more technical piano piece, right?
A: I think so, I think it’s pretty difficult, but it’s really emotional, too and that’s the fun part of it, especially with orchestra because it’s such a grandeur. You feel a lot, you feel really big as an instrument.
Q: Is that why you chose it?
A: Yeah, because it’s much more fun to play than just a technical piece.
Q: In general, is that the kind of music, the big dramatic pieces…?
A: Yeah, I do love those types of pieces.
Q: Your CDC bio talks about 2 sources of inspiration for you as a pianist, Evgeny Kissin
 and Beyonce. Could you talk about how each of them inspire you and where else you might find inspiration?
A: For the audition of the competition, the EMF competition, the morning of, I watched at least half of Beyonce Homecoming, which is maybe my 13th time,  and it was really powerful for me. I think that it was a source of confidence and as I said, the piece is really big, grandiose. Kissin, as well as Beyonce, in that aspect helped me - I don’t think I’m a very big person, my hands are small - my hands kind of broke playing this piece, but it was the energy of their performances that carried me through.
Q:  Are there any other inspirations for your life or for your music?
A: I just finished reading Michelle Obama’s book and she was also talking about how music impacted her life in a way and I feel like music can carry, it doesn’t have to be a music that teaches you and that was really important to me when I read her book. She talked about the environment it gave her, the home and the peace and  I really relate to that.
Q:  Do you plan to compete in the Andover concerto competition?
A: That’s next year and a lot of things can change and I don’t know what piece I’m going to play yet. 
Q: Are you tending one way or another right now?
A: Yes (thinking she’s going to enter the competition), but again, I have to learn a new piece and I have to decide that before I can decide.
Q: In general, what’s next for you. Are there any programs or competitions that you’re looking for?
A: This November, I’m going to go to Carnegie Hall and perform a piano solo piece because I won the American Fine Arts Association competition this June and that’s my next step.
Q: Beyond that, what do you think is going to be the role of piano and flute for the rest of your life. Do you plan for that to be your career path?
A: I really hope that I can keep it in my life like the way it is now where it’s a really big part of my life but it’s definitely not the only thing I focus on. I have a lot of interests that don’t relate to music at all, but the music is always, the lessons that it has taught me has carried me through everything else. I hope when I go to college and when I’m an adult and have a job that I can practice and share it the way I do now. I don’t know if that will be possible, but that would be my dream.