Andover Celebrates First Latinx Heritage Month
By: Laura Ospina


BOFCXLII 


Andover will celebrate its first official Latinx Heritage Month from September 15 to October 15 with the help of Alianza Latina, Andover’s affinity club for Latinx students. Events range from an open house for Viva, Andover’s first Latinx dance group which is in its premier year, Salsa Night, an event that originated during Latin Arts Weekend, and a meeting for Alianza Latina that is open to the public. 
Since her freshman year, Ashley Alvarez ’20, Co-President of Alianza Latina, has dreamed of having the chance to extend the traditional Latin Arts Weekend to a full month of celebrating Latinx heritage. She hopes to use the time to dive beyond the traditional stereotypes and instead share with the Andover community the multitude of nuanced complexities that her culture holds.
“I feel that at Andover a lot of my identify I have had to stifle in pursuit of academics or other extracurriculars versus in my month, which I can say is my month as a Latina, I want to celebrate myself and I want to celebrate all my other peers who are Latinos and I want to share that culture with my friends who don't identify as Latinx and the general campus and the faculty [and] whoever wants to partake in that,” said Alvarez. 
According to Daniel Dominguez ’21, Co-President of Alianza Latina, the club wanted to honor affinity values and continue to build and engage with the Andover Latinx community. The club also wanted to share the pride they hold with the rest of the school through all inclusive programming during the Latinx Heritage Month events. 
“We want to have fun but also educational and attractive events that would garner the campus's attention and also things that are new. For example, the regional [dance], which will include local high schools, isn't really something that has been done before. We tend to reach out to the same boarding schools, and we figured, ‘why not try schools like Lawrence High and Methuen High?’ Bringing those schools in will definitely be something that will make Latinx Heritage Month stand out for us,” said Dominguez. 
One of those new events includes a panel on October 4 of Latinx Andover alumni from a range of different professions and ethnicities that Alvarez will moderate. Alvarez explained how focusing on Latinx professionals was crucial in breaking down what she felt were perceptions of monolithic Latinx identity.
“Our goal on having a panel that's so diverse professionally and culturally is to emphasize that Latinidad is not this one stereotypical thing. It's so many cultures and so many countries and so many things we do with our lives and not just this idea that's perpetrated by the media. It will be an inspiration for Latinx students on campus to go through Andover and follow in these footsteps and also for the general public to see how Andover alumni are successful,” said Alvarez.
According to Jineyda Tapia, Instructor in English and Faculty Advisor to Alianza Latina, providing a window into life after Andover can be beneficial for Latinx students both in the short and long term. Tapia also explained how the panel aims to empower the next generation of youth by providing them with examples of how to be successful as a representative of the Latinx demographic. 
“It is critical to build these networks as there’s research that demonstrates when a youth see themselves reflected in a position (whether that’s occupational, in entertainment, or various academic fields) they have greater success in attaining their goals. The month allows us to explore the possibilities of our students’ futures both in [Andover] and consequently in the real world, and most importantly, how they come back to campus and help build the next generation. That’s the true spirit of Non Sibi,” Tapia wrote in an email to The Phillipian. 
According to Dominguez, Latinx Heritage Month provides much needed representation of Latinx students at Andover. Dominguez believes that it helps Latinx students and faculty on campus unite in celebration, despite coming from varied backgrounds and holding different perspectives on their identity. 
Dominguez said, “Personally, I think it's a massive step for Latinx students on campus. We're like what, eight percent of the entire student body, we're not well-represented, not really much talked about in [All-School Meetings]. Obviously, race is a big topic that is discussed at this school but when we get to ethnicity, Latino and all that concerning that identity, it gets a bit ambiguous. Definitely having something for Latinx students to look forward and celebrate what will be and is great for all of us. It's something for all of us to look forward to.”


EOFCXLII






















Transcriptions 
Ashley Alvarez ’20, Co-President of Alianza Latina
Since freshmen year, it's always been Latin Arts Weekend which has kind of been hard for me personally growing up very proud of my heritage and very proud that I am Latina since school I have always celebrated a month, it's always been Latinx Heritage Month or Hispanic Heritage Month. So coming here to Andover, which prides itself on being inclusive and diverse to only have Latin Arts Weekend, that was kind of off-putting for me. When I become Co-President of Alianza Latina it was my dream to extend it from a weekend to a month. It was hard at first, trying to convince myself to have the courage to ask but after I did talk to my other Co-President and talking to my board and my faculty advisors, it was really surprising how onboard everyone was with the idea and it wasn't just me who felt we deserved a month. From there, the process was talking to LCG and outlining why we need a month, why Latinos on campus need a month and why we should extend just that weekend to a month. 


We have two calendars running right now which is super confusing for me. There is one calendar with all the public events. We'll kick that off with Viva's open house on September 28th. I'm also the Co-Head of Viva, which is Andover's first Latinx dance group and we are in our first year. I wanted to open Latinx Heritage Month with that open house because dance is super important for Latinidad and to have never have had a dance group focused on Latinx dancing is really surprising to me. So I want to open up the month with that. Other events open to the public are Salsa Night, which has been a traditional staple of Latinx Arts Weekend but now it is going to be one of the staples of the month. We also have our first open-door meeting. Alianza is in its second year of being an affinity group and as such, we don't have spaces for other people to come in, even though, I was in the process of being affinity. There were a lot of people who were against it because they wouldn't come to our meetings so holding the first-open door meeting is super important to be to get the people who are my friends, a lot of them, wanted to keep Alianza's club so they can come to our meetings now, invite them in especially for the last day of the month. 


Our key-note speakers are actually kind of unorthodox because it's multiple speakers. It's a panel of Latinx alumni from Andover. They're coming from New York or local in Boston or they're coming from Lawrence and they identify as different things, as Mexican, Paneminian, all different types of ethnicities and cultures will be represented on the panel and different professions. Our goal on having a panel that's so diverse professionally and culturally is to emphasize that Latinidad is not this one stereotypical thing versus it's so many cultures and so many countries and so many things we do with our lives and not just this idea that's perpetrated by the media, one thing that defines Latinidad. The panel, which everyone is invited to, is on October 4th. That panel will just be me, moderating the panelist, and talking about, first of all, life at Andover at Latino students and then after. How Andover helped propel themselves. It will be an inspiration for Latinx students on campus to go through Andover and follow in these footsteps and also for the general public to see how Andover alumni are successful. 


We're going to have posters up, we're going to tell our friends. It's a lot of word of mouth, especially since this is the first month, we really want it to be successful. There is a lot going on this month but I really want to share with the entire campus this month because it's our first month at Andover and it's a chance to highlight Latinidad in a way that it hasn't on campus before. Everyone can enjoy the music or the food or the culture and just learn about it in a way that doesn't feel like anyone's excluded. 


In a few words, Latinx Heritage Month, especially at Andover, is important to me because I feel that at Andover a lot of my identify I have had to stifle in pursuit of academics or other extracurriculars versus in my month, which I can say my month as a Latina, I want to celebrate myself and I want to celebrate all my other peers who are Latinos and I want to share that culture with my friends who don't identify as Latinx and the general campus and the faculty, whoever wants to partake in that. I'm really excited to share my culture with everyone.


Daniel Dominguez '21, Co-President of Alianza Latina
It was definitely concerning last year, the change becoming from a community club to affinity, building that space for Latinx students. We wanted to start expanding in a way to become all-campus inclusive and still honor our affinity values. We figured having something like Latinx Heritage Month, which wasn't previously seen on this campus, would be great. 


Definitely consulting the adults in CAMD, including Ms. Springer, working with her a lot. LCG especially helped us a ton with arranging and coordinating, especially with our panel, taking the alumni who are coming through, accommodating them, reaching out, getting their contact info. People like Ms. Savino, Nick Olma, who helped us get in contact with alumni who identify as Latinx. 


The events for affinity building, I'll focus on that first, are the meeting which we have today, the panel, and I believe another meeting, I could be mistaken. Just focusing on the community we're building, we still want to focus on that. As for the more open school events, we want to have fun but also educational and attractive events that would garner the campus's attention and also things that are new. For example, the regional, which will include local highschools isn't really something that has been done before. We tend to reach out to the same boarding schools and we figured why not try schools like Lawrence High and Methuen High. Bringing those schools in will definitely be something that will make Latinx Heritage Month stand out for us. 


We definitely want to make it something where everyone feels completely safe and not offended, we don't want any disputes there. Bringing in an instructor, for example, will help everyone learn. It won't be something like if you can't dance, it's going to be embarrassing. The whole point is to teach people how to dance salsa and have a good time. Hopefully, that should be universal. 


Personally, I think it's a massive step for Latinx students on campus. We're like what, 8 percent of the entire student body, we're not well-represented, not really much talked about in ASMs. Obviously, race is a big topic that is discussed at this school but when we get to ethnicity, Latino and all that concerning that identity, it gets a bit ambiguous. Definitely having something for Latinx students to look forward and celebrate what will be and is great for all of us. It's something for all of us to look forward to.


Jineyda Tapia, Instructor in English and Faculty Advisor for Alianza Latina
It’s been invigorating to observe Alianza Latina expand their reach within the Latinx community in PA as well as their work in making our campus a more inclusive and equitable place for all students. This year’s Board has been able to expand Latinx Arts Weekend to reflect the whole month of Latinx Heritage Month that runs from September 15 to October 15. One of the goals was to expand programming that includes former PA alumnae that identify as Latinx that can give a provide a window to all students of their experiences both as a student in PA and life after PA. It is critical to build these networks as there’s research that demonstrates when a youth see themselves reflected in a position (whether that’s occupational, in entertainment, or various academic fields) they have greater success in attaining their goals. The month allows us to explore the possibilities of our students’ futures both in PA and consequently in the real world, and most importantly, how they come back to campus and help build the next generation. That’s the true spirit of Non Sibi.


Emiliano Caceres ’22, on the Board of Alianza Latina
I think that moving it to Latinx Heritage Month is important because we have so many events and so many things that we want to do that we couldn't fit them into just one weekend. It creates more space and more opportunity for us to celebrate Latinx people on campus and their culture and it gives us more opportunities to do that than just over one weekend.