Grasshopper 2019 Embraces “The Future” Theme In Annual Family Weekend Performance
Staff Report
BOFCXLII
Alarms blare as Alycia Basquiat ’20 and Layomi Oloritun ’20 scamper towards the center of the stage, jumping into an imaginary time machine. Suddenly, the lights begin to whir wildly in bright bursts, until a sudden darkness blankets the stage completely. A few seconds later, the rest of the Hypnotiq members lumber into view, impersonating robots from the future. Scrambling to fit in with the futuristic identities, Basquiat and Oloritun attempt to save the inevitable future of hip-hop.
“Our concept is basically how me and Layomi, the other Co-Head of Hypnotiq, get into a time machine… to save the future of hip-hop… We crash, and then all the robots come in so we start dancing with them, but then at the end, there’s a big explosion, [which is] what we wanted to stop. We wanted to stop hip-hop from blowing up, basically,” Basquiat said.
According to multiple performers, Grasshopper’s acts varied in their interpretations of the theme of “The Future,” with topics ranging from climate change to the evolution of dance. Zar Cordova-Potter ’20, theater director and producer of Grasshopper, expected most people to take the theme literally, but much to her surprise, this was not the case. 
“We were worried that people would take ‘The Future’ and put robot costumes on... The amount of creativity that people went through is honestly astounding—we thought that there would be one or two people that went somewhere creative with it. Instead, everyone just completely revolutionized everything—I was so impressed,” said Cordova-Potter.
With a combination of shimmering bells and coordinated harmonies, Handbell Choir begins the annual show with their take on ‘A Whole New World.’ Starting off relatively soft with linear melodies, the bells grow in intensity and eventually merge together, chiming a final chord in unison before the lights go out. Alana Yang ’21, member of Handbell Choir, believes that the song directly relates to how people view the future: a whole new world.
Yang said, “At the beginning of the year, we had a list of pieces that we were planning to perform and ‘A Whole New World’ was a part of it. So it just happened to fit into this theme of the future, and that the future is a whole new world, something that’s different from the world that we live in now, so we thought that was something we could perform for Grasshopper.”
Footsteps, JVNE, and Blue Strut used their performances to present their belief of what the future would look like: a more equitable world filled with female empowerment. To display that concept, the dance groups chose songs and choreography that would emphasize this message.
Natalie Shen ’20, a member of JVNE, said, “Traditionally a lot of K-Pop dances, for females, are usually very feminine and really fragile. So we decided that we were going to be women, but do a traditional guy dance, so we decided to bring a lot of power into our song, and it’s futuristic in the sense that [first], there’s Asian women on stage and [second], the song is questioning the future and how women can be bosses. So we fell in love with that concept and ran with it.”
Other groups decided to take a look back into their own art form’s past in order to reconcile the present and shape the future. Fusion began their act with the roots of Afro-Carribean dance, but changed their choreography mirroring the changes that happened to their style of dance throughout time.
Claude Sayi-Amen ’21, Co-Head of Fusion, said, “We didn’t know really know how to fit [the theme of future] into Afro-Carribean culture, but then we said, ‘Why don’t we focus on the African diaspora and the history of our culture?’ So that’s why we start off with the quote, ‘Culture doesn’t make people, people make culture.’ We go through the different times of Afro-Carribean, then Hispanic, and new Afrobeat tech dances throughout a timeline.”
The show ends with a performance from the band The Turn-Offs, playing “I Melt With You” by Modern English. Band members form a semicircle on stage, donning retro visor shades. Accompanied by electric guitar and roaring drums, the song provides a triumphant ending to the hour-long performance.
Cordova-Potter offered another interpretation of “The Future,” choosing to focus on Grasshopper itself and its legacy. She believes that Grasshopper should reinvent itself rather than rest on its traditions, year after year.
“When we originally thought about 'The Future,' in a big way we wanted to tear down the history of legacies that Grasshopper has. There are a lot of groups who feel that they're guaranteed to get into Grasshopper, because they've gotten into Grasshopper in previous years or the groups themselves are really old—they feel like they're well-established on campus. We wanted to [say,] ‘No! This isn't about the past. This is about the future.’ This is about upcoming groups, about new ways of revamping the old groups, about who are you going to be,” said Cordova-Potter.
Grasshopper will have four performances this weekend: Friday at 6:00 and 9:30 p.m. and Saturday at 8:00 and 9:30 p.m.
EOFCXLII




















The lights are pretty futuristic, in our opinion, and the fact that it’s in the dark. Also, the music is like a remix, like trap and electronic, and the whole idea of it is kind of futuristic. It also differs from the other acts here because there are a lot of singing and dancing but we offer something different with the lights... In the beginning, there’s a lot of chaos and darkness, but as we get to the end of the piece, it gets lighter and happier. - ALEXA DICENSO ’21


Lady Gaga's has always been an artist who's ahead of her time and pushing the envelope and boundaries in terms of what pop culture is. We trade the solos between group members and the idea is that we're all going to grow up and be famous one day. One of the songs, 'Paparazzi,' literally means that the world is our stage, and all of the songs in the medley are from her album 'The Fame Monster,' [so] they all connect to the fame in some ways, in our futures. - ADAEZE ’20


The emcee role was a bit different this year because they wanted it to be more serious and less skit-oriented. So we ended up doing a song, a spoken-word poetry at the end, and the start was more conversational. But for the audition, we had a whole story-line planned, like we were going to go back in time with a magical Subaru. I think the hardest part has been this week because we’ve just been spending hours with the producers and a lot of brainstorming and a lot of notes. - 


Basically, it’s a lot of sarcasm in that our generation is expected to carry this future and honestly, we’re just here for a good time not a long time. I’m not speaking for the generation, but for myself, and that’s what I wanted to reflect in our scripts. - Amelia Meyer ’21


I mean… we all die right? Death is inevitable. It’s everyone’s future so I guess it is the future. The song is about coming to grips with the inevitable end...When I come in with the drums, it’s the first crash of [expletive] I’m dying, I don’t want to die, I don’t want to go. And then towards the end, Denise, who is the best singer I’ve ever heard in my life, starts to calm down a bit more and comes to terms with it. It’s the future that we all have, that we don’t want to acknowledge, but eventually we all have to go through the great big gate in the sky.  - GIO PIERRE ’21[a]








ANNA LIU '21


I am the light designer and I take care of the lightboard as well.


I've been doing it for four years, but I started it because I'm usually the one onstage but Andover had a thing where you could do tech crew and so I decided to join and try out. Over the years, I've done multiple shows and I've really enjoyed it. So, I thought why not keep continuing.


I feel like this year, there's a lot of really cool acts. There's definitely some new things that we haven't seen before in recent years.


Q: Describe new lights?


One act has a kind of ombre on the cyc [cyclorama // projection screen], which looks pretty cool. For Hypnotiq, we added, between lights, a sort of color strobe, which looks really nice. We just added them yesterday [on Tuesday]. 


Q: Tang Renovations effect?


There's definitely more to play around with. There's more lights you can do. You can do more designs and effects. If people are more specific with certain positions that they want lit up in certain colors, we can do that now. Before, it was more like this huge expanse of light, but now we can narrow it down to the position people want. 


UANNE CHANG ‘20


I'm on the Dance Board with Emerson Judson and Jackson Diodati. We work with the producers in handling the organizational aspects of Grasshopper. For example, we help with a lot of the tech schedule, the show order. We auditioned people on Sunday to figure out who we were going to have as our Grasshopper cast. It's a lot of these kind of things. I guess something I did personally was choreograph for two of the a cappella groups. I choreographed for Yorkies and Keynotes, which was really fun and enjoyable for me. 


What are you most excited for?


I'm really excited to see everything together. Grasshopper is always exciting because I feel that it's one of the few chances where all of music, all of dance, all of theater comes together. We get to see all different types of talent showcased to such a large audience. It's really exciting to see that happen.




SOFIA GARCIA ‘21 -- CO- HEAD OF KEYNOTES


There's this one really difficult part in the middle of the piece. If we hit it right, it's going to sound really cool and I'm excited to see if we can pull it off.


Our arrangement is "Daft Punk" by Pentatonix, and it's the "work it harder, make it better" portion of the arrangement, and each voice part takes a tiny section of it. It's going back and forth and back and forth, so it's really hard to pull off, but it sounds awesome when it works.


Q: How does your act tie in with the "Future" theme?


Daft Punk has a lot of electronic beats, EDM, futuristic messages and lyrics, and we're hoping to incorporate some of those thematic elements into our arrangement and into our performance.


Q: Why do you think people should come to Grasshopper?


Grasshopper is a great opportunity to see your friends perform. There isn't a show like it during the year and everybody is so talented. It seemed like a really good opportunity to show what we're working on so far, so everyone should come.


Q: What's one act that directly contrasts your act?


Photon is absolutely insane. They're a dance group that use balls of lights. They dance with the lights, and it's absolutely incredible to watch. There are vocal performances, dance performances, bands, everything under the sun. It's really awesome.






ALANA YANG ’21 (Handbell Choir)


Q: How does your act tie in to the theme of Future?


At the beginning of the year we had a list of pieces that we were planning to perform and “A Whole New World” was a part of it. So it just happened to fit into this theme of the future, and that the future is a whole new world, something that’s different from the world that we live in now, so we thought that was something we could perform for Grasshopper.


Q: What do you hope the performance will add to Ghop?

I think that Handbell Choir is such a unique act in that there hasn’t really been an act like Handbell CCoir, so we hope to add this extra diverse element to an already diverse group of performers.


Q: What do you hope audience members take from this?


I hope they realize how cool Handbell Choir is in a way, and that it’s not where you just ding some bells and call it a day, but that it requires a lot of skill and coordination to get all the bells together. And when it call comes together, it can sound really magical, like you’re on a flying carpet.


Q: How would you describe your act in one word?

Magical.




Alexa DiCenso ’21 (Photon)


Q: How does your act contribute to the theme of the future?


The lights are pretty futuristic, in our opinion, and the fact that it’s in the dark. Also, the music is like a remix, like trap and electronic, and the whole idea of it is kind of futuristic. It also differs from the other acts here because there are a lot of singing and dancing but we offer something different with the lights.




Q: What do you hope your act would convey to the audience?

In the beginning, there’s a lot of chaos and darkness, but as we get to the end of the piece, it gets lighter and happier, so that idea of thinking away from the darkness and try to be happy, and how that masks the darkness.


Q: What do you hope your act could bring to ghop?


I guess the lights aspect with the POI, because apart from the stage just being lighted, we’re working with lights. Similar with Josephine [Banson ’22], she has a Chinese yo-yo that also lights up that’s kind of unique.




Vanessa Fan ’23 (Footsteps)


Q: Addition to theme?


Our dance, we first start with a traditional Chinese dance, and we move into an Indian dance; it starts off very traditional but it moves into modern and cop style. IN the end we have a K-Pop dance that’s very modern and almost futuristic in a way. In the end, everybody comes together, so it’s like a fusion of culture.


Q: Impact of music?


In the beginning, it’s very traditional, but then it becomes almost electronic.


Q: What do you hope it’ll add to ghop?

Just the fusion of cultures and how different we are. I want the audience to enjoy it and to see the different Asian cultures, because not a lot of people see these dances. I believe most people haven’t seen a lot of Chinese of Indian dances.






Alycia Basquiat ’20 (Co-head of Hypnotiq)


Q: Add to future theme?


Our concept is basically how me and Layomi [Oloritun ’20], the other co-head of Hypnotiq, get into a time machine in the beginning and go on a machine to save the future of hip-hop. We’re starting in the 70s, that’s where we’re from and we’re traveling to the future, past now. And we’re basically trying to stop hip-hop from becoming what it is now, at least that’s what the robot-lady told us. We crash, and then all the robots come in so we start dancing with them, but then at the end, there’s a big explosion, that’s what we wanted to stop, we wanted to stop hip-hop from blowing up, basically, but we failed. And then we had to escape and go back to the past.


Q: Audience?

I just really want people to see our creativity because we really tried to show the future in our piece, and I hope that gets translated to the audience.


Q: Unique?

I think what’s unique about us is that we tell a story, we’re really taking the stereotypical idea of future really seriously like in movies, which is like robots and shiny, metallic stuff, which is what we’re wearing. I feel like the time machine is explicitly future. The other acts go with that theme as well and having a deeper meaning, but I think we’re just really trying to have fun with it.






Cheryl Tugade ’21 (solo rap and singing)


I’m performing a song that I wrote and produced, and I’m rapping and singing. It’s called “Human Like You”


Q: Theme of future?


It’s a song that’s produced, written, and performed by me, and in the past, they didn’t have the technology to do these things, you’d have to record it and you didn’t have a laptop. It was much harder to be an independent artist. So music in the future and artists now, it’s much easier to write and produce your own music.


Q: Audience?

Just that you can perform something that you created, I guess. I like that I’m doing an unoriginal song, because I actually didn’t think I could rap and sing; I just wrote songs. For me, the writing is such a big part of my performance.


Adaeze ’20 -- DOWNBEAT cohead
1. how act relates to future theme
We're doing the Fame Monster medley by Lady Gaga. One, Lady Gaga's has always been an artist who's ahead of her time and pushing the envelope and boundaries in terms of what pop culture is. We trade the solos between group members and the idea is that we're all going to grow up and be famous one day. One of the songs, 'Paparazzi,' literally means that the world is our stage, and all of the songs in the medley are from her album 'The Fame Monster,' [so] they all connect to the fame in some ways, in our futures.


medley is called "The Fame Monster Medley"


2. different interpretations of future
I really like that aspect of the theme. This [theme] sort of requires all the groups to really have a concept and to really be committed to presenting that concept and performing it. I think it's really exciting that it's not something that's super straightforward, and everyone gets to put their own creative spin on it.


3. stats
total hours preparing for grasshopper: 7 hours


4. most exciting
Teddy -- everybody worked hard to be here and it shows. 


What he said. I think for DOWNBEAT, specifically, we didn't exist when Grasshopper came around last year, but it's really excited for us to be a newer group and to be in Grasshopper for the first time and get to perform in such a large Andover scale. I also think just generally for Grasshopper, just seeing everyone's interpretation of the theme, it gets to be really interesting to see how everyone's putting the theme into their act and seeing our friends, especially when it comes to dance groups, to see everyone perform in such different things all in one night. 


5. rough estimate for performers in total:
under 100








Anntonia Taylor ’20 and Samantha Turk ’20 (Tap prelude)


Q: Most excited about?


Anntonia: I’m just very excited to finally put everything we’ve worked on on stage for everybody. I felt like there was a whole rush at the end to get everything done, but just putting it on stage will just feel so rewarding afterwards.


Q: Theme of future?


Anntonia: We felt like it had 1920s energy, so we were thinking, “What if in the future, we were dead?” Because the 20s are coming up, so the 20s in the future but also from the past. It’s kind of like old times, classical music, and we’re playing with Johann [Asmus ’20].
Sam: Another reason why we thought about us being gone in the future is that tap is kind of being a dying art, so we’re playing with the idea that it’s in the past but we’re trying to bring it back into the future.


Q: Audience?


Anntonia: Just kind of how hard we were able to work in such little time. We were able to throw this together in what we were given. 
Sam: We hope people would have a greater appreciation for tap and see the amount of skill it requires, and more people will try it. Join Footnotes, we are not audition based!




Amelia Meyer ’21 and Ioanna Ninos ’21 (Emcees)


Q: Why become Emcee?


Ioanna: Amelia texted me over the summer and was like “hey, what if we audition for MC for grasshopper?” I was like, “totally, yeah, why not?” because I’m always down to go along with Amelia’s shenanigans. The audition was the same day as all the other acts, but we just signed up for MC. Our preparation process was to write a 2-minute skit. I think we went a little all out for that. We had a bunch of props, memorized our whole skit, and we even had these skooters from PE class. Sadly, they didn’t make it in. The MC role was a bit different this year because they wanted it to be more serious and less skit-oriented. So we ended up doing a song, a spoken-word poetry at the end, and the start was more conversational. But for the audition, we had a whole story-line planned, like we were going to go back in time with a magical Subaru. I think the hardest part has been this week because we’ve just been spending hours with the producers and a lot of brainstorming and a lot of notes.
Amelia: It’s been a lot of work. I’m really tired.


Q: Future theme?


Amelia: Basically, it’s a lot of sarcasm in that our generation is expected to carry this future and honestly, we’re just here for a good time not a long time. I’m not speaking for the generation, but for myself, and that’s what I wanted to reflect in our scripts.


Q: Audience?


Amelia: Be good. The future will be fine.
Ioanna: Have fun. The future will be fine. The future is also today so make the most of it.




Quintin Moss ’21 (co-head of Downbeat)


Q: Theme of future?


The song we’re doing is “Fame Monster” by Lady Gaga, and obviously all of us are performers. So in this act with our three soloists, we’re trying to portray them as this is their future and they’re becoming famous and the people behind them, as you can see, is kind of like their paparazzi and fans. The show is showing them becoming superstars in the future.


Q: What does this act bring to ghop?


The two things I really like about what Downbeat is doing is that one, Downbeat is a lot smaller than other groups, so we can really just acapella. We’re a bit quieter, but that’s fine. Also we’re a smaller group and we can just blend in together really well. I also really like how with our performance, we’re going all out with lights and stuff and making it super flashy, which I think is unique for the acapella scene. 


Q: Audience?

I think the theme of Future, how we’re presenting all of our soloists’ futures is what I hope our audience takes away. It’s not 100% that you can become a superstar, but it’s definitely possible. Also, one of the things that you hear all the time in the show is that maybe something bad might be happening. Like “the boys are monsters,” and how the paparazzi can get annoying. But it's the things you have to get through to become famous.


Q: Excited about?


Personally, I’m really excited because this is the first grasshopper I’m in, and my family is coming this weekend too. And I think the grasshopper is going to be really good this year, so I’m hoping that they’re impressed. This is also Downbeat’s first big performance ever. This is kind of like our Debut performance.








SHANNON LIU ’20 (Co-Stage Manager / Director)


Q: Could you describe a little bit about what your job entails?


For me, I’m in charge of the stuff backstage, and the communication between the grasshopper team and the entire cast and the tech?


Q: How much time do you think you’ve put in so far?


Other than the whole day of audition and the tech rehearsals, I think probably around three to four hours just to manage all the information, a few more to organize all the inforamtion, and a few more to send them out to the cast, to make sure there were no errors. Probably an hour or two more to deal with some unexpected complications and a lot of overtime in the theater for people that couldn’t have their lights fixed in time.


Q: What has been your favorite part of the whole process so far?


Probably right now actually. When we’re running the show for the first time I think is my favorite part. 


Q: What has been the hardest part so far?


[The hardest part has been] time management. Sometimes for some shows we overestimated the time they needed for tech, for others we severely underestimated them, and we also had these debates about whether we should push other groups back to schedule other groups or schedule them at another time. These are all pretty minute, but really annoying things.


Q: Why did you decide to help out with grasshopper. 


I think I was chosen for this role in particular because I’d say that I have a relatively high stress tolerance, so right now during rehearsal I am not as stressed out as I could be. Another thing is that I am pretty organized in the way that I do things. There are the artistic people that are performing which I am definitely not, so I am basically organizing everything, adding additional notes that people forget and then packaging them up and communicating them?


Q: How excited are you for the first show?


I am very excited. I think this year is going to be amazing because there are a lot of fresh things that this campus has never seen before in terms of talent but will get to see come Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.


Sophie Liu ’20 (Performance w/ Junah Jang ’20 and Ariel Wang ’21)


Q: Could you just give a little description of your act?


Our act is kind of a singer, dancer, pianist act and it’s kind of experimenting with combining the vocals with movement and storytelling in that way.


Q: What was the inspiration for the piece?


I guess the inspiration was kind of our own experiences combined with looking towards the future while also bringing the past with us. We’ve actually been thinking about this Spring of last term. We really wanted to collaborate and create a piece that brought out some of our favorite things to do and then I guess trying to fit it into the theme of the future and here we are now.


Q: Could you explain a bit about how the performance related to the theme?


We combined the two songs ‘She Used To Be Mine’ and ‘Somewhere Over the Rainbow,’ going off the idea that you can’t really look into the future without looking back into the past in a way. So in the piece Junah is sort of the main character who is weighed down by her frustrations and the problems that she carries with her in the present day, and I am a representation of her younger self. So in the piece she sort of looks back at me and the representation of her past in the very idealistic way that she viewed the world which was very hopeful, childlike, and naive. She steps through the frame and experiences the childhood memory again. At the end, I kind of push her back through which shows that although she cannot relive that version of herself, that’s okay, and she can carry a part of her younger spirit and youthfulness with her as she moves forward.


Q: How was preparing for the show?


It was actually really fun. We were looking for an accompanist and Ariel was also in Bancroft so we decided to collaborate on that in that way. Preparing for it, we started out by rehearsing in the Bancroft common room and then we migrated to the dance studios and we even rehearsed in Timken. It was a really fun process, and it was nice to get to do it this term, this super stressful term of senior fall, because it was a nice outlet for creativity. For Junah especially getting to scream and for me just releasing my energy was really nice.


Claude Sayi-Amen ’21 (Co-Head of Fusion)


Q: Could you sort of describe the performance?


So pretty much, because The Future is the theme this year, we didn’t know really know how to fit that into Afro-Carribean culture, but then we said “Why don’t we focus on the AFrican Diaspora and the history of our culture” so that’s why we start off with the quote “Culture doesn’t make people, people make culture.” We go through the different times of Afro-Carribean, then hispanic, and new Afrobeat tech dances throughout a timeline.


Q: How do you think the performance is going to go?


I think it’s going to be amazing, I think we’re an amazing team this year - beautiful. We got it.


Q: Any challenges?


One of the challenges was teaching the step, because we had a really tight schedule, because a lot of us have other commitments as well. But we were able to fit it in and just get a lot dance before the grasshopper audition, and we just needed to lock it in. 


Q: Favorite part?


My favorite part is always practice, we always come together as a family, and it’s always amazing just to get to see everyone dance. The culture is always nice, everyone is always dancing, even if we run into trouble, we always get past it. We’re a family.


Faith Monahan ’20 (Co-Stage Manager / Producer)


Q: Could you just describe a bit of what you do?


I am in the tech booth, I’m sending cues, so I cue all the lights and all the music, and I cue the curtain going up and going down. I’m just kind of making sure that all things happen, and keeping track of everything.


Q: How had prepping for the show been?


Audition day was definitely a very intense day. We saw a lot of really amazing acts so the decisions were very difficult, and it was a very long day, but I’m impressed with all the auditions that we had. I was very nervous for grasshopper, because I wasn’t sure if I could be assertive, but now I feel really good and I feel like what I’ve messed up on, I will not mess up on during the show.


Q: What would you say has been the most challenging part?


The most challenging part was probably just that it’s so much time. Talking about the same things, trying to make decisions, and trying to work with so many people. And I think that after trying to do that for long amounts of time - hours on end - just sort of makes that more difficult.


Q: How do you think the theme has been incorporated throughout the show?


I think that one of the things during auditions that I think is a good thing to keep in mind is quality over clarity in terms of the theme. I don’t think it should be something that prevents people from getting in just because I would rather have people come in with their best work them show up with something that’s supposed adhere to one strict concept.


Giovanni Pierre ’21 (White Tails)


Q: Could you describe your act?


So Pink Floyd in 1973 brings somebody in and tells them “Hey we want to use your voice as an instrument.” She goes on and does some scat bu-dop thing, and they’re like “No, think about death.” So she goes up and makes what we just performed. The beginning of the song is someone dying and trying to come to terms with that. Towards the end they start to come to terms with that.


Q: How do you incorporate the theme of future at all?


I mean [expletive] we all die right? Death is inevitable. It’s everyone’s future so I guess it is the future. The song is about coming to grips with the inevitable end. There are no lyrics to the song so it’s all about energy and how it feels. When I come in with the drums, it’s the first crash of [expletive] I’m dying, I don’t want to die, I don’t want to go. And then towards the end, Denise, who is the best singer I’ve ever heard in my life starts to calm down a bit more and comes to terms with it. It’s the future that we all have, that we don’t want to acknowledge, but eventually we all have to go through the great big gate in the sky. 


Emerson Judson ’20 and Azariah Jones ’21 (Blue Strut Coheads)


Q: Could you describe a little bit about your performance?


(EMERSON) So the theme was the future, so we decided to go for a female empowerment theme with our dance, because that’s how we picture the future. We pitched songs from a strong female background so we did Beyonce, we did ‘Flawless,’ ‘Schoolin Life,’ and ‘Grown Woman’ for the last song. We have pink boas for the end which was just really fun. We thought it was just bad and we are boss women.


Q: Are you guys excited for the actual performance? How did you incorporate the theme into your routine?


(AZI) We’re very excited for everyone that’s new to have their first grasshopper as a group and be backstage and everything because that’s always really fun. We brainstormed for the theme and we didn’t want to do like robots, especially for our style of dance, more strut. And we already do a lot of things by female artists, so it was a good direction to go.


Natalie Shen ’20 (JVNE)


Q: Could you just describe a little bit about your performance?


So traditionally a lot of K-Pop dances, for females, are usually very feminine and really fragile. So we decided that we were going to be women, but do traditional guy dance, so we decided to bring a lot of power into our song, and it’s futuristic in the sense that A, there’s Asian women on stage and B, the song is questioning the future and how women can be bosses. So we fell in love with that concept and ran with it.


Q: What are you most looking forward to in the actual performance?


Just the cheering. We have a bunch of solo parts, and we all try our best there and I think it’d be really nice to see what everybody thinks and get to perform for everybody because it’s our debut performance for grasshopper.


SHREE MENON ‘20


Our act ties with the "Future" [theme] because we're doing a medley of "Rocket Man" by Elton John and "Sunflower" by Post Malone. In the beginning, with the first half with "Rocketman," we're trying to get the feeling that we're alone in space. That's something that's going to be in the future too – we're going to be always drifting off alone in space. We have that in lighting as well, with the dark blue hues. The times can be sad, moving on. We're living in a world where it can be tough. Then we shift into "Sunflower," which is a brighter, happier world that we want to set in the future. That's a transition from the present, which may be dark, to the future, which is happiness. 


People should watch Grasshopper this year because we have a lot of talent, whether it's singing, dancing, and other [acts] – Photon, we just witnessed, killed it out there with the lights. Fusion, Hypnotiq, and other dance groups absolutely killed it in terms of song choice, dances, the movements, the personalities, altogether that we have in the show. 


Q: Do you think all the groups tie in neatly with the theme?


I think they all have their own approach coming into the "Future" theme in a way that, whether it's through voice, through dance, lighting, the themes are different and they're applied in different facets of "Future." But in the end, it all comes together and I think the emcees do a great job of culminating all our acts.


 
LUCAS GARCIA ROGERS ‘22


The song that we're performing is called "Melt With You" and it's about a dystopian future. Sure, it sounds a little dark, but we put a positive spin on it. It's just a fun song to play. There's one line, "the future opens wide," that was our main reason for picking the song. Otherwise, it's just a fun song.


Q: What's one act that directly contrasts what you're doing?


There was only one other band. So, I guess there's a bunch of dancing – playing in a band stands apart from the others.


i think there's definitely different ways of attacking the issue. There was the soundinng futuristic -- dancing had a futuristic. While 




WYATT ROGERS '22


This is my second year doing spot and a lot of it's just working with the acts and going along and trying to figure out what works best. I would say it takes a little bit of time. It doesn't take forever, but it doesn't take a short amount of time. We had the longest rehearsal from 9 to 5 on Sunday, where the majority of the tinkering of the acts goes on, and then throughout the week have 3 hours a week to fine tune where the spotlights go, the lighting, the sound, and all that.


Q: Why do you like doing spot?


You get to see all the acts from above. You get to meet a lot of cool people who do shows like Grasshopper. It's a cool way to meet people and a fun thinng to do.




DONALLY WILLIAMS ‘21


I run most of the tracks. For the a capella groups, I do a lot of mic control. I just make sure everything sounds good. 


In general, I've done a lot of tech in the past for theater. But in the second [floor] booth area, I get to see all of my friends performing. Generally, I like learning things from Mr. Seymour, in terms of learning about sound because I haven't run sound a lot in the past.


Q: Challenges?


It's really rough sometimes, especially if you hear really large spikes in volume. It's a learning curve, definitely, but I still enjoy it. It depends on the situation, but I get assistance a lot from Mr. Seymour. It's really just taking the time to notice it.


I haven't done Grasshopper before, actually. I was walking past, and Mr. Seymour was like, "Hey, can you help with Grasshopper?" And I was like, "yeah sure, what do you need help with?" I emailed him, and he asked if I could help with sound. It was informal. I always try to let Mr. Seymour know that I'm here to help because I do enjoy teching.


BRADFORD SEYMOUR


This show is not about the faculty. We're here as a support role. We use it as a way for people to start learning how to do lighting, or sound. It's really about having student work on stage supported by other students, and showing that for Family Weekend.


Q: What's the preparation that goes in?


This year, it was more involved because of the renovation [to Tang Theatre] we did over the summer. The lighting and sound systems were completely new, so we were working from scratch, which is pretty exciting too, because they're really, really nice systems. I think that the kids doing the tech were really able to use them to start learning both lighting and sound, and having a lot of options on their hands. 


Q: What's your role?


I think advisor. I think that all of us [faculty] are there helping the producers realize their goals for the show, helping the technicians and designers realize their goals for the show, and helping individual performers realize their goals for the show. Sometimes that involves helping them understand what those goals are. I think that that's the way in which we're advising.


Q: How many hours of rehearsal?


Tech rehearsals – each group had a half-hour tech rehearsal on Sunday and we've had 3 hour rehearsals every night since then. A half hour block to get all their light cues and staging figured out. Eight hours on Sunday plus nine, plus our open dress. 


Q: What's one benefit of the Tang renovation?


The rainbow effect. The sound – the subwoofers – we didn't really have subwoofers before. The new sound system blows the old system away. It is really amazing. At however loud it was, it was only turned up halfway.


ZAR CORDOVA POTTER ’20 - theater director, producer


1. prepping and role
So I set the lights; we have somebody whose job it is to do lights -- Anna does lights, but she wasn't actually here the day that we set all  the lights, she had a prior commitment, so I set all the lights, except for all the light changes that we made. I am in charge of MCs, I'm in charge of essentially a lot of theater-oriented stuff. Obviously I was there at auditions; we're all contributing to all of the acts, I give some notes, I make some judgement calls, but we all work together.


2. most looking forward to in show
Hearing the audience. I think that's always really satisfying.


3. most challenging
Oh God, everything about Grasshopper is hard, always. The thing is, Grasshopper is kind of designed to be a mess; I don't think there's ever been a year where it didn't feel like we were still panicking and not ready at the last minute. We've done a lot of work and there's still a lot to do before we have an audience tomorrow. 


We have so little time; these people were all cast less than two weeks ago. So we've got a ton of these people who are going around, thinking maybe they'll try out, thinking maybe they have half an act together, and then s\uddenly they're being told that they need to be show-ready in less than two weeks; not all of them are ready to be in that place when it gets to one week [or] three days from... There's a lot to pull together. Everybody works super hard. 


You'll just walk through Steinbach Lobby at any minute of any day and you'll see people there practicing, rehearsing, running through steps, [even] people just talking in Commons and thinking about [Grasshopper]; it's so many people. Grasshopper is so many students -- if you've seen the entire cast list, it's pages long. We have to get all those people together. Imagine how hard it is to schedule that many people, to ask that many people to do anything. Even just having people bowing on stage was a huge planning mess; we were like, 'How are we going to do that and fit everyone but still have the band fit behind?' It's a huge project with absolutely no time, and I'm really proud of everyone who did it.


4. theme
we brainstormed themes... The future was my idea... We just had this huge list of all these themes. I happened to put that down, but also [the actual theme] was developed through all of us, [such as] actually deciding on the title; we all helped, all put a lot of thought into what the theme meant and how to present it, and I think that in of itself is a large part of the process. 


We discussed pros and cons. There were a few themes that we vetoed because we thought that they had the potential for problematic acts. There were some that we just thought were just too hard for people to fit their acts into, some that were too close to what was done last year [and] the year before. 


5. incorporation of theme into acts
When we originally thought about 'The Future,' in a big way we wanted to tear down the history of legacies that Grasshopper has. There are a lot of groups who feel that they're guaranteed to get into Grasshopper, because they've gotten into Grasshopper in previous years or the groups themselves are really old, they feel like they're well-established on campus. We wanted to be like, 'No! This isn't about the past. This is about the future. This is about upcoming groups, about new ways of vamping the old groups, about who are you going to be. What is everything going to be?' 


People really showed up. We were worried that people would take 'The Future' and put robot costumes on. Blue Strut is doing feminism, Hypno has a skit about literally getting into a time machine, Fusion's got their thing about culture. Josephine Banson has got this really cool idea about this traditional Chinese yoyo and how [we] can make it super cool and futuristic. We've got Footsteps literally going through generations of Asian dance, which is incredible. The amount of creativity that people went through is honestly astounding; we thought that there would be one or two people that went somewhere creative with it. Instead everyone just completely revolutionized everything -- I was so impressed. 


[a]Really want to include this - don't know how to transition