Director of the Addison Gallery Judith Dolkart Transfers to the Detroit Institute of Arts


BOFCXLII


After five years as the director of the Addison Gallery of American Art, Judith Dolkart will be leaving her position this December to become deputy director at the Detroit Institute of Arts in January. As director at the Addison, Dolkart was responsible for all the operations and curation duties. In her new position, she will be working as a curator as well as creating educational resources.
“I’ll be responsible for the curatorial side of house, as well as education and programming, so working with the curators on their collections, exhibition ideas and ideas for acquisitions…Then for education, they have a very robust educational department that serves children and adults from three counties all around Detroit. Programming will be things that complement whatever the exhibitions are… This could be a wide variety of activities for children and adults,” said Dolkart. 
One of the reasons that Dolkart has decided to take the new job is the vast amount of resources that will be at her disposal working for an institution such as the Detroit Institute of Arts. From the diverse art collection to the wide range of departments, Dolkart believes she will have more opportunities to explore work in her field.
“Detroit has one of the best collections in the United States. It’s an absolute killer, and it’s encyclopedic, so it has many different kinds of departments. It has European paintings, American paintings, African art, Asian, Islamic art, so lots of different aspects… It’ll be fun to look at other cultures, and other styles and ideas and artists,” said Dolkart.
Dolkart expects her experience in curatorial direction at the Addison to be valuable in her new role. One of her hopes for her new job is to share the wonder in the discovery of art, which she experienced in her cultivation of the Addison collections. 
“I love the moment of discovery when students come into the museum learning center and they see something for the first time, or they make a discovery for themselves about something that they’re looking at. It’s something they see in the object themselves, and you can’t beat that,” said Dolkart.
Working in museums has been Dolkart’s long-time passion. Even though some may consider curating a less accessible or normalized occupation, Dolkart’s family history and educational path led her down the road of museum work.
“I had a grandmother who worked at a museum when I was growing up, so I got to see the behind the scenes, which made the museum more magical to me. And, I went to [Phillips Exeter Academy]. When I was there, I went on a school year abroad and I went to France, and we were required to take art history, which was not in any way a burden. We would study things in the classroom and then we would go to see them around France…and to me that became so exciting. You’d study this thing, and then you went and saw it… and that’s when I decided that that’s what I wanted to study in college, art history. And then I became a specialist in French Art,” said Dolkart.
Aside from Andover and its students, Dolkart will miss her colleagues at the Addison. 
“They are not only the best at what they do, and that’s a professional distinction, but they’re also great people. They’re smart, and they’re funny and they’re a pleasure to be with every day…they’re creative, they’re thoughtful, committed professionals,” she said. 
EOFCXLII














TRANSCRIBED INTERVIEW


What exactly is your role at the Addison right now?


I am the (Mary strip and Art Crosby Kemper?) Director at the Addison which means that I am responsible for all of the operations of the Addison and the curatorial direction of the Addison.


What’s that like?


It’s good! I’m really lucky because everyone who works at the Addison is the best at what they do. It’s absolutely true. The staff at the Addison is probably the best I’ve ever worked with.


How long have you been working with the Addison?


I started at the Addison in July of 2014, so it’s been a little over 5 years.


Where were you before that?


I worked at a place in Philadelphia called the Barnes Foundation. It’s also a museum and educational institution.


So you’ve been working in education and curatorial business for a while?


Yes. And before I worked at the Barnes, I worked for 9 years at the Brooklyn Museum in New York.


What will your role be at the Detroit Institute of Art?


So a little bit different from what I’m doing right now. I’ll be responsible for the curatorial side of house, as well as education and then programming. So, working with the curators on the collections, on their exhibition ideas and ideas for acquisitions for new things to come into the collection. Then for education, they have a very robust educational department that serves children and adults from the 3 counties all around Detroit. And then programming will be thing that compliment whatever the exhibitions are, in house. That could be movies, that could be lectures, this could be a wide variety of activities for children and adults.


So you’re setting up the entire educational side of the museum?


Sort of the creative and educational side.


What are you most excited for in that new job?


Detroit has one of the best collections in the United States. It’s an absolute killer. And, it’s encyclopedic so it has many different kinds of departments. It has European paintings, American paintings, African art, Asian Islamic art, so lots of different aspects. And, when I worked at the Brooklyn museum, that’s also an encyclopedic museum, so I love that kind of environment. It’s been amazing to work at the Addison, which is a museum of just American art, and it has also, one of the best collections of American art in the country. But, it’ll be fun to look at other cultures, and other styles and ideas and artists. 


Do you have any friends who are working there already or will it be a whole new environment?


Pretty much a whole new environment. The director of the museum is actually a PA parent and he and I met each other when we were very young curators. He came to see a painting, a triptych, at the Brooklyn Museum, so we spent some time together in the conservation lab to look at it. We became friendly after that and whenever we would see each other at conferences, we would talk and hang out. Because he’s been coming to campus to see his children, we’ve had other opportunities to meet and talk about art but also what we’ve been doing at the Addison. So I know Salvador, that’s the name of the director, And through the interview process I’ve gotten to know other people but I would say Detroit is a completely new city for me.


What are you going to miss most about the Addison?


That’s really hard, but, I think the people. Because, as I said they’re not only the best at what they do, and that’s a professional distinction, but they’re also great people. They’re smart and they’re funny and they’re just a pleasure to be with everyday.


The people you’re working with now, have you been working with them for the entire five years, or did most come in while you were already here?


Most of them were her before I came but we’ve had a few new additions. And they are just like everyone else. They’re really good at what they do, they’re creative, they’re smart, thoughtful, committed professionals.


Would you say that the job you have at the Addison, and the new job you’re going into, are things that you’ve always wanted to do? Was it just what ended up or was it a dream?


A little bit, my dream. It’s so funny, a friend of mine once said to me “Are you the weird one in your family?” Because she was the weird one for going into museum work. I was very lucky because two things. One: I had a grandmother who worked in a museum when I was growing up, so I got to see a little bit, the behind the scenes, which made the museum more magical to me, the museum environment I should say, more magical. And then the other thing is, I went to the other school. I went to Exeter. When I was there I went on school year abroad, and I went to France, and we were required to take art history, which was not in any way a burden. For me, it was like we would study things in the classroom and then we would go see them around France, because we were not supposed to return during our holidays, we were supposed to stay. And, to me that became so exciting, because you studied this thing and then you went out and saw it. So, it could be cave paintings, it could be churches, cathedrals, paintings, and that’s when I decided that that’s what I wanted to study at college, art history. And then I became a specialist in French Art.


 When are you leaving?


I’m leaving sometime in December. I haven’t exactly set the date because it’s a little bit dependant on when I find an apartment and things like that, but I’m starting my new job in January.


What was the application process like?


The application process was that I received a phone call and I was asked “Would you know of people who would be interested in this position and/or would you be interested?” And, because I know Detroit to be one of the best collections in the country, and the job of dealing with the creative side of house, the programming side of house, is something that really appeals to me. Actually, it’s very similar to the job that I had in Philadelphia but with more departments and more responsibility than I had when I was in Philadelphia. When I was in Philadelphia I was a deputy director also, but really just dealing with the collections and the exhibitions. This job enlarges that responsibility to deal with education and programming. So, it’s an opportunity to grow my skill set and that’s something that I’m really interested in. I think if you’re learning something everyday, and you’re productive everyday, then you have a good job.


What do you think you’ll miss most about working in a school?


I love the moment of discovery when students come into the museum learning centre and they see something for the first time or they make a discovery for themselves about something that they’re looking at. It’s something that they see in the object themselves, and you can’t beat that.


How do you think you can apply what you’ve learnt here to your new job?


I think the notion of seeing students encounter art everyday as I have mentioned, is something really special and it’s not an environment in which I’ve been before. Certainly I’ve worked in museums where students came, but this is one of the biggest missions of the Addison: to connect the collections to students’ studies, to their world and to themselves, and I hope that in Detroit I’ll have the opportunity to bring that kind of wonder in experiencing that, to that job as well.


 You’ll be working in the education and planning center so I’m sure that you’ll have the opportunity to really see that happen.


One of the things that’s really important is being in the galleries everyday and to really see what visitors are seeing and experiencing, and I look forward to doing that at Detroit also. 


Are you nervous about anything?


I’ll have many new colleagues, which is always very exciting but also very anxious making. I want to make a good impression


Is there anything else you’d like to add?


I just want to say, as an Exonian, I can say that I will really miss Andover.