BOFCXLII
Nicola Sommers PG’20 netted a penalty kick against Rivers last Saturday to lead Andover Girls Soccer to a 4-0 victory over Rivers at home. 
After losing to Rivers last year, defeating the team helped unite the players according to Emma Fogg ’21 and Lily Haik ’22.
“We lost to [Rivers] last year 2-1, so winning 4-0 helped show our growth as a team and how we didn’t psych ourselves out because of our previous loss last year,” said Fogg.
Haik said, “Everyone was so happy after we won, there were even tears from some of the other girls and I think that this game helped us come together as a team.”
According to Fogg, the defense and goal-keeper Emily Hardy ’20 were crucial aspects in Andover’s victory over Rivers.
“Most of the goals scored so far have been by counter-attacks. I remember during the game Emily Hardy went in with the ball on a counter-attack and scor[ed]. Defensively I think we played really well too. We were really solid. We shut down all the strikers Rivers had coming at us basically the entire time. The rest of the field was really on fire [too],” said Fogg. 
Later in the week Andover secured a 1-1 tie against Pingree on Monday and a 3-1 win at Middlesex on Wednesday. The team’s record now stands at 3-0-1.
The team adjusted its play for the different styles from Pingree and Middlesex, according to Mack Lucas ’20. 
Lucas said, “Pingree played a different style than Rivers played. Rivers had a more direct approach with the ball while Pingree played more possession, and it took us a while to recognize that.”
Despite the challenge against Pingree, certain players were able to rise and help the team, such as Karoline Conte ’21, who was named Player of the Game, according to Lucas.
“[Conte] was running at people, she helped us keep our tempo up. Same for Anna Hurley [’21] who played midfield, she would help run our tempo and keep us going during the game even when we were all exhausted. Also Emily Hardy, back at the net, when we were tied, she helped us keep focused after halftime,” according to Lucas.
According to Myra Bhathena ’22, Middlesex’s defense made it difficult to get in scoring position.
Bhathena said, “Middlesex played a very defensive game where they played numbers in their defense, so it was difficult to get the ball in. A lot of us were anxious leading up to this game because we haven't been able to practice as much recently due to all the games, and we only had four [substitutes] which was unusual.”
The team maintained its tenacity throughout the entire Middlesex game, according to Bhathena. Kendall Toth ’23 started both halves and scored the team’s only goal of the game, earning her Player of the Game.
Andover hopes to improve its ability to change its style of play depending on each opponent, according to Bhathena.
“We could work on adaptability. When we play different teams kind of figuring out how to change our play. We are a really talented team and we have a lot of talented individuals, who play really well together. But when we play together we should work on different styles and having different approaches,” said Bhathena.
The team will travel to Loomis Chaffee this Saturday. 


EOFCXLII












RIVERS GAME 9/14 (Win, 4-0): Lily and Emma
PINGREE GAME 9/16(Tie, 1-1): Mack
MIDDLESEX GAME 9/18(Win, 1-0): Myra
 
LILY HAIK ’22
 
It [the team dynamic] was amazing, I think all of us were really proud of each other because usually Rivers is a really difficult match and so beating them by not just one nil, but four nil and not letting in any goals really showed all the hard work we put into each and every practice. Everyone was so happy after we won, there were even tears from some of the other girls and I think that this game really helped us come together as a team, and as a new member I feel really included in the family. I think we’ve really come together as a family and the new people feel as if they've always been a part of the team, it's really nice. Going into the match we had the mindset that we knew it was going to be a difficult game and everyone knew we could definitely do it and the girls pushed through and we did it and won.
 
EMMA FOGG ‘21
 
We beat Rivers 4 nothing, and we lost to them last year 2-1 so that really helped show our growth as a team and how we didn’t psych ourselves out because of our previous loss last year. It was a really good win. There were some really good plays during the game. I think working on our counter-attacks would be really good because most of the goals scored so far have been by counter-attacks. I remember during the game Emily Hardy went in with the ball on a counter-attack and scoring. Defensively I think we played really well too we were really solid. We shut down all the strikers Rivers had coming at us basically the entire time. The rest of the field too was really on fire. Everyone played really well on Saturday. Nicola Sommers too, our PG, it was her birthday which kind of gave us extra incentive to really have a great game, and she scored a PK [penalty kick]  to make the score 2 nothing, which really gave our team a huge boost. We were already up 1 nothing, but by widening the gap to 2 nothing gave ourselves a bigger cushion and made Rivers feel as if it was harder to come back. There were no goals before half, and we scored two goals in the second half, and it was just a really great win and a really great win for all of us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MACK LUCAS ‘20
 
We played Pingree. I think we did ok it wasn't our best performance. Pingree played a really different style than Rivers played and Rivers was kinda ran directly right at us and Pingree was like sat back and played more possession and waited for something to happen. And it took us a while to recognize that. Defending against that I think we did fine but attacking we struggled to find our rhythm. Against Rivers it was easier because it was more our style our pace while Pingree is slower and more deliberate. I had said to Emma Fogg, “If this game had started 60 minutes later than it would've been a different score than 1-1.” We would have figured out the style they have while playing and what we would've had to do. Now our record is at 2 wins one tie. Karoline Conte, number one player in the game, her work ethic too, we were pretty tired but Conte is someone who never really quits. She was running at people, she helped us keep our tempo up. Same for Anna Hurley who played midfield a lot and she would run at players and she would help run our tempo and get us going. Emily hardy, back at the net, she gives really good directions and guidance. When we’re down or were tied and trying to figure out okay how do we get back to this, she helped us be really focused at half time and we knew what we had to do at half time. One challenge was definitely Pingree’s style of playing and the sitting back style and everything. We have had a lot of injuries also recently and a lot of just over use. So we had to get past that, get past playing a game on Monday which we struggled with that mentally. It was slow for us at first and we got in our rhythm but just a little but too late. The dynamic is amazing. I love this team, everyone loves this team. I think the chemistry the members has is amazing. It rivals literally any other team we play. It kinda gives us an edge, and it's what we really have going for us. We know we love each other more than any other team we play against. And it's true, you can tell during the Pingree game. Who was boosting eachother up, who was helping this person. We all trusted each other a lot and having experiences like this is where I trust literally everyone. It's a cool experience. I think we could work on adaptability. When we play different teams kind of figuring out how to change our play. We are a really talented team and we have a lot of talented individuals, who play really well together. But when we play together we should work on different styles and having different approaches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MYRA BHATHENA ‘22
 
We played against Middlesex. I think we controlled most of the game. We really adjusted under pressure and tried to keep the ball with us the whole time. Unfortunately, we were only able to score one goal, but they other team had so few chances where they could have had one or two shots on the net. Kendall Toth, our freshman, actually started both halves and scored our only goal of the game. Middlesex played a very defensive game where they played numbers in their defense so it was difficult to get in shots and keep the ball out of our net, and it was hard to get the ball in. We tried our best not to play their game and keep our own and unique intensity and not focus on the way we play and not the way they play. I think GVS has always been such a close knit team, we all love each other so much. Anyone who comes to our games can see how much support we give to each other, how much we love each other, how much we cheer for each other. I think our team dynamic is one of the best in our league. And that’s just adding onto our skill. I think the team has been really good at wanting to adjust the ball before we go straight to goal and serve up to the net and I think we've worked on that a lot. We also need to play urgently without being panicked. We need to stay quick and fast still of course but we cant let any panic get to our heads. We've had a lot of games recently, so we haven't been able to practice since I think last Tuesday just because of our schedule, I think that's taken a toll on a lot of us. A lot of us were anxious leading up to this game, and we only had four subs which is unusual because we usually have a lot more. At the game today we had to pull it together, and we still did the best that we could.