Andover Physics Team Wins First at Yale Physics Olympics
By: Laura Ospina


BOFCXLII
Although the team hardly prepared for the competition, according to Jason Huang ’21, the Andover Physics Team won first place at the Yale Physics Olympics last weekend. Huang, who is a member of the team along with Julia Zhu ’20, Harry Shin ’20, and their captain, Misha Bilokur ’20, said that Andover was not expecting to place so highly. 
“We were very surprised, because we honestly did not prepare a lot for the competition, because the problems of the competition are mostly kept secret except for the quiz. We practiced for the quiz but we were not absolutely confident about the quiz either. So we were very, very, very surprised that we won Top 3 in several of the events and we won first for the whole Olympics,” said Huang. 
The Yale Physics Olympics consisted of five different events. One involved optics and lenses, one measured how accurate and far a team could project a marble, and another scored a team on how accurately they could separate 30 grams of clay from a bigger piece. 
According to Huang, the only event that was revealed before the tournament, the quiz, contained questions like how many grains of rice are produced every year on earth. Andover placed in second for the quiz, according to Mika Latva-Kokko, the faculty advisor for the Andover Physics Team. 
“The [quiz] I found the most impressive of all of these, because...every school knows that there is going to be one task on the thermic quiz, and they prepare for it, and our preparation for it was on the car ride over to New Haven on Friday night,” said Latva-Kokko. 
According to Latva-Kokko, although the team did not prepare for the tournament in advance, their mastery of basic physics principles and troubleshooting an experiment is what caused their victory. 
“They had the right idea of how to approach each of the problems. It comes down to two things: one is that they are solid with their basic physics. They know which principles are going to apply. With that Young Physicists Tournament experimentation that they have been doing, they know how to troubleshoot an experiment. If an experiment is not working the way that they would like it to work. They know what to try to get it to work better. That's something you don't normally teach in class but they have gotten a lot of practice,” said Latva-Kokko. 
The Andover Physics Team was originally formed last year to compete in another competition, the U.S. Invitational Young Physicists Tournament. Because only four students attended the tournament last year, the team is currently expanding into the Young Physicists Club to attract more students to join. 
“We have started a club called the Young Physicists Club and we successfully applied for an Abbot Fund last term. What we decided was to expand the team into a club for more people to get involved. For example, for the Yale Physics Olympics, a school can send multiple teams to attend. I think next year at this time we will probably send more people to Yale and to have more fun, the more the merrier,” said Huang. 
In Andover’s first Young Physicists Tournament last year, Andover placed second place, losing to Exeter. This year, the team hopes to beat its rival and prove themselves, according to Zhu. 
“We are really hoping to make this competition a bigger deal, because this year, the competition is at Exeter, and we want to beat Exeter at their home ground. I think this specific event would allow us to first off, justify ourselves to the Physics Department and the Abbot Board for using their money and perhaps encourage them to give us more money in the future for that other competition,” said Zhu. 
According to Zhu, because the team currently consists of three Seniors and one Upper, they are trying to garner more club interest in an attempt to attract younger students to continue the legacy after three members graduate this year. Zhu explained how more members could lead to a bigger advantage over other teams in competitions. 
“In the other competition, it works more as a physics fight type thing. One side presents their research and their solution to the problem and the other team tries to poke holes in it, and it's sort of public speaking or debate type format. Other teams are allowed to send scouts out to take a look at your solutions so their team can prep in advance. That was a huge advantage that we didn't have but, [Phillips] Exeter [Academy], for example, did. We're hoping that with a club we can bring along scouts and have people to help us with our experimentation of things,” said Zhu. 
        Editor’s Note: Harry Shin is a Digital Editor for The Phillipian. 
EOFCXLII




























































































Jason Huang '21
The team, we met last year, as Misha and I were new and we four found a common interest in physics and we decided to attend the YPT, Young Physics Tournament, last year in February. And we found that we four worked very well with each so us four decided to attend the Yale Physics Olympics this year... Our faculty advisor is Mika Latva-Kokko, he is a Physics faculty member and he teaches fluid dynamics and the Physics 550 series on campus. 


The Olympics is like the real Olympics. It consists of five different events. One is to build a catapult to see how accurate and far can you project a piece of marble. There is one to use a laser to determine the refraction rate of a piece of crystal. There is also this one about optics. You play with some lenses and focus some light as strong as you can. There is this quiz where you are asked to estimate different quantities by your pure knowledge and calculation. It asked me to estimate how many grams of rice are produced every year on earth. That was a very interesting question. There was the last one which is experimental. They gave us a big chunk of clay and they gave us the density of the clay and we have to create 10 pieces of clay that weigh exactly 30 grams. They test us on the consistency of our weight of the clay as well as our accuracy. How close are we to the standard of 30 grams? They sum all the ranks each team gets through the five events and whoever sums the least gets the first place. That's the mechanism of the whole competition. 


We were very surprised because we honestly did not prepare a lot for the competition because the problems of the competition are mostly kept secret except for the quiz. We practiced for the quiz but we were not absolutely confident about the quiz either. So we were very very very surprised that we won top 3 in several of the events and we won 1st for the whole Olympics. We were very glad to know that and we were very surprised. 


We have started a club called the Young Physicists Club and we have successfully applied for an Abbot Fund last term. What we decided was to expand the team into a club for more people to get involved. For example, for the Yale Physics Olympics, a school can send multiple teams to attend. I think next year at this time we will probably send more people to Yale and to have more fun, the more the merrier. And also we're going to compete in this year's United States Invitational Young Physicists Tournament which is a national level competition that we are looking forward to. 


I am good friends with many people on campus, especially those who are devoted to physics and other STEM subjects so I have invited them to participate in our club and team. Also for leadership, I would assume leadership of the club and I have been doing most of the planning and other stuff for the event. I am looking forward to our club next year for new members in our club and our team.


Mika Latva-Kokko, Faculty Advisor for Andover Physics Team
Last year, Misha and Harry actually wanted to start a team for the Young Physicists Tournament which is like a debate tournament and research tournament. They do some research before the tournament and then last year, that event was in Rye, New York. And our team was 2nd in that which is kind of unusual, it doesn't normally happen that people show up for a tournament like this and get second place. So they got very excited about that and this year we got an Abbot Grant so they wanted to try another tournament to see if some of them would work for our team's preparation for the Young Physicists one. Misha had heard from some of his Ukranian buddies at Taft there is a tournament at Yale and interestingly, they don't advertise anywhere, it's just on the Yale website. So they asked if I would be willing to take them there and I said yes and we went. It was successful. What I do with the team, I don't think we trained in any way for this Olympics. I'm helping out to find the time because when they're doing the experiments they need the space to do it and possibly somebody to supervise that and somebody to bounce ideas off on what experiments what to do, how to do them, and what to exactly measure and help them troubleshoot some stuff and the system. 


I like the format of the tournament in the sense that there are five tasks, if you in all five tasks pick essentially the right way of doing it, you have a much higher chance of scoring in the top part of the field. I think mainly the reason why our team did so well was there weren't any throw-away problems for them. They did well in each of the problems. They had the right idea of how to approach each of the problems. It comes down to two things. One is that they are solid with their basic physics. They know which principles are going to apply. With that Young Physicists Tournament experimentation that they have been doing, they know how to troubleshoot an experiment. If an experiment is not working the way that they would like it to work. They know what to try to get it to work better. That's something you don't normally teach in class but they have gotten a lot of practice on and especially, in the Optics one. Harry and Misha definitely had a leg up because they've been playing with mirrors and lenses all term... That is what I think is going on here. They chose to use the right physics principles and knew how to troubleshoot when things weren't as going as well as they would have. 


The team was excited. There is a certain level of randomness to the tasks that they give you. Even if you do the tasks completely right, it isn't given that you are going to be first place or second place or third place. The team was very excited when the results started coming in, in the first task, which was estimating the mass, which was a little surprising. I was very excited and they were excited. We came first on that one and we didn't expect much more after that. I did expect them to come high on the spring fling, the project launch one because I saw that one and they went way pass the organizers expected everyone to do. I knew that was going to be good. On the other ones, I wasn't really expecting much at all but then they just kept coming. They were second in spring fling, they were second in the thermic quiz. Which by the way, that one I found the most impressive of all of these because the thermic quiz is something that every school knows that there is going to be one task on the thermic quiz and they prepare for it and our preparation for it was on the car ride over to New Haven on Friday night. It's really good that they have the skills to estimate the order of magnitude quickly. That was the one that I was most impressed with, getting second in an event that everybody knows and that people are going to be preparing for. The other two which were the optics ones, like I said Harry and Misha had been playing with this so they knew what they were doing. I'm not surprised by that at all... 


The Young Physicists Tournament is going to take place in Exeter. Exeter won it last year, we were second... That's the next one. They are right now in the process of doing the experiments for that competition. I'm hoping to have a little bit larger team this year than what we had last year because last year we had the minimum size of a team. We had four people and that's the minimum of what you are supposed to bring. We didn't have any scouts so the Exeter team had last year, 9 people, they had 5 scouts. If we could bring 9 people, that could be perfect so we can see what others have done before going head to head with them.


Julia Zhu '20, one of the members of the Andover Physics Team


I think all of our team members have a lot of good physics background. Most of us have completed the Physics 600 sequence and completed Math 650. Jason, I know is in the middle of the 600 sequence, but yeah. I think the Olympics were more application of knowledge and/or being able to think on the spot pretty well and problem-solve. I think preparation would have helped a little bit but I think we were pretty good going in. 


I don't think we expected much going in because they announced the winners by category first and then they announced an overall winner. And we placed in four out of five categories. In the first one came in, we were like Okay! And as more categories, we were like okay, okay. And by the time the overall came out we were kind of expecting to win. 


This team was actually formed for another physics competition called the US Invitational Young Physicists Tournament and we won second last year. It was our first year and we lost to Exeter. And we are really hoping to make this competition a bigger deal because this year the competition is at Exeter and we want to beat Exeter at their home ground. I think this specific event would allow us to first off, justify ourselves to the Physics Department and the Abbot Board for using their money and perhaps encourage them to give us more money in the future for that other competition. But it's also great because the Phillipian is covering us, getting more club interest, getting more younger students involved because our team right now is three senior and one upper so that's definitely something we are hoping to resolve. 


I think after we went to the tournament last year, we realized that a lot of other schools take this competition a lot more seriously than we do. There's something called scouting. So in the other competition it works more as a physics fight type thing. One side presents their research and their solution to the problem and the other team tries to poke holes at it and it's sort of public speaking/debate type format. Other teams are allowed to send scouts out to take a look at your solutions so their team can prep in advance. That was a huge advantage that we didn't have but, Exeter for example did. We're hoping that with a club we can bring along scouts and have people to help us with our experimentation of things.