Kathryn Hume ’02 Emphasizes Ethics and Philosophy in Tech
Amber Ting


BOFXCLII
When working in a science, technology, engineering, or math (STEM) field, Kathryn Hume ’02 believes that it is imperative to develop skills in philosophy and ethics. Hume is currently the head of product and business development at the research laboratory Borealis AI and has done extensive teaching and speaking on the role of ethics in artificial intelligence (AI). On Thursday, October 10, Hume spoke about machine learning and career advice at a Girls in STEM club meeting. She is the inaugural speaker in this year's Women in STEM Speaker Series, which is funded by an Abbot Academy grant.
Hume noted how vulnerable programming and software engineering can be to unfair biases. She emphasized the role of the people behind programs and explained how posing ethical questions can be crucial to STEM fields. 
“The key things [in] computer science, engineering, math and statistics…are philosophy and ethics, especially when we're using data that relates to patterns in society. Say you're going to be using a pattern to predict if somebody deserves a loan or a mortgage… and it learned that people from certain ethnic backgrounds are less likely to repay their loans. Suddenly you've built a system that it discriminatory against certain people. You don't want that to happen,” said Hume in her talk.
In addition to her work, Hume’s talk focused on the fluidity of her direction in life, starting with her Andover education and continuing beyond college. While Hume’s early inclination towards STEM fields may have been expected, she explained that her junior year of college at the University of Chicago was instrumental in changing major aspects of her direction in life. 
“I graduated from Andover in 2002. [There], I focused a lot on math and science like AP Physics and Organic Chemistry… and I went to college as a science and math major. But [Upper] year I went to Paris… I took literature, film, and philosophy. I got back, and I was like, ‘I really like this stuff.’ I don't feel like doing my complex analysis homework. I want to do other stuff,” said Hume.
“I ended up graduating from [University of Chicago] where I did my undergrad in a major of Comparative Literature, which is basically learning lots of languages and working in the literature between different countries, and a minor in math,” she said. 
Hume encouraged students to embrace uncertainty in their professional lives as well. She pointed to her own life and explained how her career direction has shifted multiple times after graduating from Andover.
“I went to graduate school at Stanford, and I decided to focus on comparative literature… I decided I didn't want to go into academia...I thought I was making this huge shift from academia to business and that I would never teach again...A mere two years after, I got a call from a university asking me if I would join their law department as an adjunct law professor, because I had learned so much doing that marketing specialist job at a legal software company that I was recognized as an expert,” said Hume. 
“They invited me to teach a course, and I taught there for a couple of years...Currently, I lead all of the product development efforts for the machine learning research lab for the largest bank in Canada… [and] I have a blog, and I like to teach. It's totally impossible to predict your future, but that's what special about being a human… You can't plan it. That's why it's wonderful,” she continued. 
According to attendee Jeremy Zhou ’21, Hume assuaged some of his worries regarding his own future occupation.
“I like getting life advice, because I'm in this stage in my life where I'm like ‘'I don't know what to do.’ Getting feedback from someone who's already gone through this whole process [makes me] have a better idea about what to do… I wrote down the things she said [about majors and careers]. I'm still not sure where I'm going, but I now feel like it's definitely worth figuring out,” said Zhou. .
Josphine Manson ’22, a member of Girls in STEM, enjoyed Hume's personal reflections, which allowed Manson to have a deeper understanding of what Hume was saying. 
“I thought what she was talking about, [computer science] and how she was so interdisciplinary in her learning, was very interesting...I really enjoyed when she discussed her own journey and how you don't have to be certain in what you're learning and how going into different areas of learning can be very beneficial for you and seeing things in a new perspective,” said Manson.
Hume’s talk will be followed by Natasha George, founder and CEO of the Somerville Electric Vehicle company, who is scheduled to speak on January 27.
“Our idea for the speaker series was to have three different speakers in three different fields of STEM. We wanted to have someone who was an expert in computer science and machine learning, someone who’s working in STEM and entrepreneurship, and someone who's working in medicine. We were actually really fortunate to have someone on the Abbot Grant community connect us to Dr. Hume,” said Emily Qiu ’20, a member of the Girls in STEM Club and an event organizer.
Editor’s Note: Jeremy Zhou is an Associate Graphic Design Editor at The Phillipian. 
EOFCXLII
________________
Information
The Girls in STEM club, is hosting Kathryn Hume '02, one of the world's leading experts on AI. She will be speaking about her journey from Andover to being a tech executive, as well as her work on AI.  With special thanks to Christina Li '21 and Emily Qiu '20 for coordinating this event. 
The Women in STEM Speaker Series is made possible by a grant from the Abbot Academy Fund, continuing Abbot's tradition of boldness, innovation, and caring 
Katherine Hume = Director or Product & Business Management, Borealis AI
Kathryn Hume is a widely-established speaker, writer, and business leader dedicated to commercializing scientific research through the development of machine learning and AI products. She has taught on the implications of enterprise AI adoption, law, and ethics at Harvard Business School, MIT Media Lab, Stanford University, and the University of Calgary Faculty of Law. Having worked in machine learning since 2015 and enterprise software since 2012, Dr. Hume previously held leadership positions at integrate.ai and Fast Forward Labs (Cloudera), helping to optimize the operations of large Fortune 500 companies through the implementation of machine learning solutions. She currently oversees product and business development at Borealis AI, a research laboratory leading machine learning innovation for the Royal Bank of Canada.
Transcriptions
Talk
 
“If [artificial intelligence] seems like something you want to do, what should you study? I parse this up into different kinds of career paths. The first is pure STEM… Right now, there are three kinds of different career opportunities for someone who's interested in building systems using machine learning. You can go into research… build products for smaller companies… or apply new methods to solve traditional problems… What should you study if you want to get there? The key things [are] computer science, engineer, math and statistics…, and philosophy and ethics because these days, especially when we're using data that relates to patterns in society – say you're going to be using a pattern to predict if somebody deserves a loan or a mortgage… and it learned that people from certain ethnic backgrounds are less likely to repay their loans. Suddenly you've built a system that it discriminatory against certain people – you don't want that to happen… It's really important that you are able to pose critical ethics questions as opposed to just focusing on computer science…
There's other opportunities. You could go into venture capital. You could be a CEO of a start-up… or you might be interested in these ethics questions – you might be interested in policy or law… is don't worry about getting a business degree. Focus on things you care about. Go into the liberal arts. Study literature, philosophy, or history.
… And what if you're into everything?... This is my story… I graduated from Andover in 2002. [There], I focused a lot on math and science… like AP Physics and Organic Chemistry… and I went to college as a science and math major. But junior year I went to Paris… I took literature, film, and philosophy. I got back, and I was like 'I really like this stuff'. I don't' feel like doing my complex analysis homework. I want to do other stuff. I ended up graduating from UChicago where I did my undergrad in a major of Comparative Literature, which is basically learning lots of languages and working in the literature between different countries, and a minor in math. I went to graduate school at Stanford, and I decided to focus on comparative literature… I decided I didn't want to go into Academia… I ended up getting a job as a humble marketing specialist at a software company called Intapp which works on law firms… I thought I was making this huge shift from academia to business and that I would never teach again… A mere two years after, I got a call from a university asking me if I would join their law department as an adjunct law professor because I had learned so much doing that marketing specialist job at a legal software company that I was recognized as an expert in professional responsibility, ethics, and law firms – so they invited me to teach a course, and I taught there for a couple of years… Currently, I lead all of the product development efforts for the machine learning research lab for the largest bank in Canada… I have a blog, and I like to teach – so I'll be invited to give lectures at Harvard, Stanford, MIT, and the University of Toronto.
… I imagine if you're like me, in particular as a woman sitting in lots of male-dominated courses, you might have lots of questions that you're too scared to ask. Somebody will ask that same question, and you'll be like 'I had that question, but I was too afraid to say it.' Ask them all. There's never a question that is too small or too stupid to ask. Often the ones that you're most embarrassed about are the ones that get at the heart of the matter. If you get used to doing it now, you'll get used to doing it your entire life, and you'll succeed even faster.
… It's totally impossible to predict your future. But that's what special about being a human. When I was graduating with a literature PHD, there's no way I thought I would be addressing you about about how to succeed in machine learning and STEM. The future's always bigger. The world changes much more quickly than we can predict. The opportunities six months from now or a year from now or seven to eight years from now when you guys go out and get your first job will look nothing like they do today. You can't plan it. That's why it's wonderful.
 
Q&A:
(How did your Andover education impact your career? Do you have any advice for us as Andover students in terms of utilizing the resources we have?)
Andover had a huge impact on me… I was a townie, originally from upstate New York. We moved when I was eleven, and I went to a public school. [Andover] was like I had gone into this big new world with the courses that were offered and an ability to engage with my peers that ranged from taking an AP Physics course and really pushing myself to do well on that test to taking a James Joyce seminar in the English seminar and reading all the way through Ulyssess. You can't do everything. There's always going to be way more course options than possible. But if there's a particular subject you want to go deep into, you can. I love that clubs push things beyond and outside the classroom.
 
Jeremy Zhou '21
 
“Why did you attend the event?”
“I thought it was interesting. The idea of hearing about the machine learning field from someone who's in it as opposed to online. I've never met someone in it.”
 
“Did you have any favorite parts?”
“Just in general, getting live advice. I like getting live advice because I'm in this stage in my life where I'm like 'I don't know what to do'. Getting feedback from someone who's already gone through this whole process is like 'maybe I'll have a better to idea about what to do' [later].”
 
“Was any of the stuff about majors or careers particularly useful?”
“Yeah. I wrote down the things she said. I'm still not sure where I'm going, but I now feel like it's definitely worth figuring out.”
 
Emily Qui '20
 
“Why did you choose Dr. Hume for the event?”
“Our idea for the speaker series was to have three different speakers in three different fields of STEM. We wanted to have someone who was an expert in computer science and machine learning, someone's who working on STEM and entrepreneurship, and someone who's working in medicine. We were actually really fortunate to have someone on the Abbott Grant community connect us to Dr. Hume. We think that the line of work she's in really falls within our interests and what we're looking for.
 
I, personally, was really inspired by her talk because I think that there's rarely moments where I see representation of women in STEM. I think it's really important to have people talk about their experiences, especially how they get into their careers. For a lot of people my age – our age – it's unclear what the future is. You might think you want to go into one field, but you don't know what's supposed to come after that. So, her talk was especially touching because it showed you can go into one field but in reality there's a lot of paths out there. That's a takeaway we want people to have.
 
Andover is pretty well-represented with Girls in STEM. There's a lot of my friends who do STEM and are really doing a great job. I do think it's important to continue down this path because in the communities around Andover, nationally, and internationally, we can definitely do more to empower girls.”
 
Josephine Manson '22
 
“Why did you attend the event”
“I thought what she was talking about – comsci and how she was so interdisciplinary in her learning – was very interesting.”
 
“Any favorite parts?”
“I really enjoyed when she discussed her own journey and how you don't have to be certain in what you're learning and how going into different areas of learning can be very beneficial for you and seeing things in a new perspective.”