BOFCXLII
Despite sitting out the majority of his Upper year due to a shoulder injury, Connor Ding ’20 was voted Andover Boys Soccer Co-Captain at the end of last season. According to Head Coach Edwin Escobar, Ding’s energy and drive were evident even when he wasn’t able to play.
“Every single day [last year], Connor would come and he would continue to train even though he was limited. While he may not have been able to play soccer, he would continue to run laps around the track, continue to check on the team to see how things are going,” said Escobar. 
According to Ding, he strives to make a good impression on his teammates by putting consistent effort into his play.
“I try to lead by example,” said Ding. “It’s not always easy to know how to motivate each player individually, but by working hard each day, other players tend to feed off of that energy.”
As Co-Captain, Ding leads the team through his actions and attention to detail, according to teammate Ethan Hong ’22 and fellow Co-Captain David Wang ’20.
“He leads by doing what needs to be done,” said Hong. “He lets his actions do the talking by doing the little things right. He is a vocal leader on the team, but people don’t give him nearly as much credit for what he actually accomplishes on the team.”
“He’s a good model to follow. He’s a good student and he leads by example. He’s reserved but he does most of his [work] without saying anything,” added Wang.
As a Senior on the team, Ding has helped the team succeed through the way in which he exemplifies the ideal student-athlete, according to Escobar.
Escobar said, “I think that [Ding] has shown to be a student-athlete that can balance things really well. I think he’s an exceptional student and he plays soccer at an exceptional level. And to be able to do both things is something that young student-athletes look at and see it as a reference ... if you’re looking at Connor Ding, you’re looking at a complete student-athlete.”
According to Hong, Ding prioritizes inclusivity and communication to create a tight bond.
Hong said, “I think he helps by reaching out to players who aren’t really as close with the rest of the team. We are trying to establish a family on this team, and I think Ding is a great example of how we want to act by welcoming new guys.”
“He’s a pretty easy guy to talk to. I think he knows how important communication is, and that’s what makes him a great leader,” added Escobar.
As center back, Ding combines a high level of skill with composure to lead on the field, according to Escobar.
Escobar said, “I think what Connor brings to the team is a level of calmness. When he has the ball, everybody feels comfortable that what he’s going to do with it is going to be something positive. So I think he brings a great level of positivity to the team and because of that, everybody takes the field with a lot more confidence.”
According to Ding, he works to create both a fun and competitive environment at practice.
“I try to be a vocal leader on the field, but off the field I’m pretty laid back and like to have fun with my teammates,” said Ding. “I work hard every day in practice, but I also want to make practices fun. I think a healthy amount of competition at practice each day is good for a team.”
According to Escobar, Ding sets his priorities straight and has an innate ability for leading.
“He knows very well that what he does off the field is equally as important as what he does on the field. He leads by example, on and off the field,” said Escobar. “He lets all of his work do the talking and he’s been a consistent leader throughout the time that he’s been here with us.”
EOFCXLII        
        






Head Coach Edwin Escobar—
What makes Connor a good captain? He knows very well that what he does off the field is equally as important as what he does on the field. He leads by example, on and off the field. He’s an excellent student. He comes to practice and he lets all of his work do the talking and he’s been a consistent leader throughout the time that he’s been here with us.
I would say for a captain and for being in the position he is, I think what Connor brings to the team is a level of calmness. When he has the ball, everybody feels comfortable that what he’s going to do with it is going to be something positive. So I think he brings a great level of positivity to the team and because of that, everybody takes the field with a lot more confidence.
He has proven to be an all-in certain kind of guy. Even last year, when he had some injuries, he would work day in and day out on getting better and figuring out where he could better help the team and with this particular case it was his recovery. So every single day, Connor would come and he would continue to train even though he was limited. While he may not have been able to play soccer, he would continue to run laps around the track, continue to check on the team to see how things are going. He always makes himself a part of the team, whether he’s injured, whether he’s there, whether he’s not, you know he’s always going to be part of the team. So, I think his effort is always on point.
I think that he has shown to be a student athlete that can balance things really well. I think he’s an exceptional student and he plays soccer at an exceptional level. And to be able to do both things is something that young student athletes look at and see it as a reference. You know, ‘If he can do it, I can do it’. And he’s great for that. I think he’s a great role model for the other players on the team.
I think Connor is always open minded person. I think his teammates that he’s the kind of person that if you have an idea and you want to express that idea to him, I think everybody feels comfortable with doing that. He’s a pretty easy guy to talk to. I think he knows how important communication is, and that’s what makes him a great leader.
I think on the field what he does best is reading the game; he reads the game really well. He’s great at communicating. While he’s not the loudest guy on the team, he communicates with the team so that we perform and we do the best that we can. So, I think that he’s always encouraging people, and while he might not have the loudest microphone out there, his voice resonates with those who he speaks with.
Off the field, I think he’s a pretty dedicated student. I think from the moment that he came to PA, he wanted to prove that he could do both, and he does it at a very high level. So, I think if you’re looking at Connor Ding, you’re looking at a complete student-athlete. He gives 100% on both ends, and that’s what we look for in an athlete.


Ethan Hong ’22—
I think that when people think of the boys soccer captain, David naturally stands out because he is a people person, and very outgoing. I think that Connor is a such a great captain because he doesn’t get on people too much, he tries to stay positive, and I think that is very important as a captain. It is something most people don’t see when we are on the field, but it helps all of us be better on the field during practice, which translates to the games 
I think Connor is a good role model to the team. He’s not flashy or anything like David because he plays defense, but he gets what needs to be done, and I think it’s very important to do the little things right. 
Connor works very hard, and I think it affects all of us on the team. He pushes us to be better every practice. His effort inspires us to be better, which is the key to becoming a successful team. 
He leads by doing what needs to be done. He lets his actions do the talking by doing the little things right. He is a vocal leader on the team, but people don’t give him nearly as much credit for what he actually accomplished on the team. 
He inspires by example. He shows us how to act, and hold ourselves up, and how to play with each other 
I think he lifts people up, which is important to the team's success. I think that positivity has been a big issue in the past, and we have improved greatly due to Ding moving forward. 
The mood he brings to the team is essential to our mindset, and the way we enter games. He is a big part of the way we play, and the energy we carry. 
I think he helps by reaching out to players who aren’t really as close with the rest of the team. We are trying to establish a family on this team, and I think Ding is a great example of how we want to act by welcoming new guys. 
He is technically very sound, he can dribble and pass well. He knows when and when not to pass to certain places, and he can make hard decisions for the team. 
It’s cool when we see him around campus, and he shows us off the field he is just like us. The other day he edited my paper when we went to the writing center, so that was cool.


Co-Captain Connor Ding ’20—
I think I was chosen because my teammates have seen my commitment to the team. I was injured for the majority of last season but I did my best to remain a part of the team.
I try to be a vocal leader on the field, but off the field I’m pretty laid back and like to have fun with my teammates.
I work hard every day in practice, but I also want to make practices fun. I think a healthy amount of competition at practice each day is good for a team.
I try to lead by example. It’s not always easy to know how to motivate each player individually, but by working hard each day, other players tend to feed off of that energy.
I try to inspire players on the team by helping them get better. I’ve played competitive soccer for a while now so I try to teach players how to improve.


Co-Captain David Wang’ 20—
He’s a good model to follow. He’s a good student and he leads by example. He’s reserved but he does most of his [work] without saying anything. He’s a good role model.
I would say he’s a pretty solid guy and once you get to know him he’s really nice. He’s chill.
He works really hard on the field and off the hard. He works very hard.
He’s just a good example for other people to follow.
He just works very hard. He just makes his presence known. He’s not the most vocal leader, but he walks the walk.
What he does really well on the field is distributing the ball really well from the back. He’s one of our centerbacks and does a really good job at that. What he does off the field be a very good student. He’s really nice to have.