BOFCXLII
Sprinting past the opposing defensive back, Co-Captain Jake Jordan ’20 hauled in a 21-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Julio Dahl ’22, giving Andover a 7-0 lead after just its fourth offensive play. The team’s combined efforts led Andover Boys Football to a 32-7 win against Worcester last Saturday, moving its record to 1-3.
Andover’s goal was to get off to a strong start in order to control the flow of the game, according to Dahl.
“We wanted to start off quick, which we did, and drive the score up early so that they would have to play catch up. We wanted to force them to switch up their game plan so that they would focus more on trying to pass. Worcester’s team isn’t very good at passing; they’re more of a running team, so by running up the score early on, we put them in a tough predicament,” said Dahl.
According to Head Coach Trey Brown ’12, the victory, his first-ever as head coach, was the result of strong team play, both offensively and defensively.
The offense was led by Dahl, who delivered 247 passing yards and three touchdowns in his first start. Jordan was on the receiving end of two of Dahl’s touchdowns, and Troy Pollock ’21 led the Andover rushing attack with 49 yards and one touchdown.
Over the past few weeks, Andover has been working on playing as a single unit and trusting in each other, which made a difference in the team’s play, according to Danny Ferris ’22.
Ferris said, “I think our losses before this game made us realize that we had to come together as a team to win and the coaches did a really good job in terms of team bonding during practice… Moving forward, we want to keep playing as a team and get out there and play for each other.”
According to Jordan and Nick Thomas ’21, this win helped boost the team’s morale and unite the players.
“Working for two weeks and coming out on top instilled a new sense of unity among the players on the team. Seeing the positive results after two weeks of hard work really is the best feeling knowing that we all managed to dial in despite the losses at the beginning of the season and do our jobs every single play,” said Jordan.
Thomas wrote in an email to The Phillipian, “This feeling of all of us coming together and winning is unmatched. We’re a team that is seen as a non-threat, but we’re here to prove everyone wrong.”
Football will face Suffield at home this Saturday.
Editor’s Note: Jake Jordan is a Live Editor for The Phillipian.
EOFCXLII


*FULL TRANSCRIPTION:
Julio Dahl ’22-
Going into this game, we had about a week to prepare. We wanted to just start off quick, which we did, and drive the score up early so that they would have to play catch up. We wanted to force them to switch up their game plan so that they would focus more on trying to pass. Worcester’s team isn’t very good at passing, they’re more of a running team, so by running up the score early on, we put them in a tough predicament. We exploited the fact that they play man to man, so we made our matchups strong.  
The biggest turning point was the first drive. We went down the field within five plays and scored a touchdown. It was the first successful drive we’ve had all season. Hunter Lane got us a 40 yard gain and then we just ran the ball three plays and took it deep again. Once we got our second touchdown, we were able to drive up the score a lot easier. We figured out their defense and took advantage of how they were playing.
We had a really good and intense week of practice. The coaches had us condition before practice instead of after to help with endurance. We noticed in past games we were always tired just before the fourth quarter and all of those games were lost after that point. We really tried our best to condition and focus on having a really energetic week and keeping the intensity up. We also had a lot more guys come back for this game because so many people were injured. We still have a lot of injured guys, but Nick Thomas came back which was a big factor. Generally, we were much more prepared for this game and we knew what we were doing.
Definitely Jake Jordan and Hunter Lane had really good games. On offense, Jake Jordan had two receiving touchdowns and 100 yards. He really took advantage of his speed to cut behind people and catch deep balls. Hunter did that a couple of times, too, but he really used his size and strength to get higher balls. He also got a touchdown from a punt and had around 100 yards.  Ben Carbeau and Troy Pollock also had great games. Troy had a few crucial interceptions and two touchdowns as well. Ben Carbeau just really dominated in defense. He had a ton of tackles to lead the defensive line. 
Danny Ferris ’22-
Julio, the Quarterback and Troy Pollock both had really good games. Julio earned three touchdowns and Troy had one, too. Troy’s one of those really consistent players and he was consistent all game. He had a lot of incredible plays with the ball. Another standout player was Jake Jordan. He had a couple of touchdowns.
Our biggest goal was to win, but that’s always the goal. I think our losses before this game made us realize that we had to come together as a team to win and the coach did a really good job in terms of team bonding stuff during practice. Moving forward, we want to keep playing as a team and get out there and play for each other.
Nick Thomas ’21-
This feeling of all of us coming together and winning is unmatched. We’re a team that is seen as a non-threat, but we’re here to prove everyone wrong.
Jake Jordan ’20-
Working for two weeks and coming out on top instilled a new sense of unity among the players on the team. Seeing the positive results after two weeks of hard work really is the best feeling knowing that we all managed to dial in despite the losses at the beginning of the season and do our jobs every single play.
Trey Brown (head coach)- *email*
We won against Worcester 32-7. Julio Dahl ’21 started at QB and had 247 yards passing and three touchdowns in his first start. Troy Pollock led the team in rushing with 49 yards and one touchdown. Jake Jordan has 99 yards receiving two touchdowns. Hunter Lane had 92 yards receiving and one touchdown from a block punt then returned. Team’s first win and my first win as head coach. All around great job by the defense, top tackle leaders were Ben Carbeau, Jake Jordan, Jacques Kuno and Troy Pollock.