Boys Cross Country Slides Past St. Paul’s During Second Dual Meet of Season
Tiffany Tang
BOFCXLII 
With five top-ten finishes including a first place win from Chris Ratcliffe PG’20, Andover Boys Cross Country defeated St[a][b]. Paul’s in its second dual meet of the season. With a win of 25-30, Andover’s dual meet record now stands at 2-0. 
This meet featured the biggest group of Andover runners racing this season, according to Head Coach Patrick Rielly.
“We had more than 30 compete, many wearing the blue for the first time, and based on the results, we're in a great spot as we look toward the rest of our season,” Rielly wrote in an email to The Phillipian.
Although Andover was missing some of its top finishers, its depth led the team to its victory.
Wilson said, “I think we saw some stiffer competition than we thought we’d see. We were missing some of our top runners too, due to injury and various reasons, so it’s good practice knowing we have a solid squad—that we can have a race even if we’re missing one or two of our top guys.”
With a large lineup of new runners for this race, the team bonded significantly during the trip to St. Paul’s, according to Will Sheehy ’22 and Jack Wilcox ’22. 
“I think our team came together at this meet because we had a lot of new runners there. On the bus ride back, everyone was talking to each other, so it felt like a complete team,” said Sheehy.
Wilcox said, “We were all nervous, but also excited. We were all really hyped for each other. After the race, when people PRed or got a good time, everyone would give them pats on the back.”
Despite Andover’s win, the course proved more challenging than anticipated, according to Harrison Wilson ’20.
“I always describe the St. Paul’s course as being quite windy; there are a lot of twists and turns that kind of slow it down even though it’s a relatively flat course. It’s good practice for our Interschols race, just because it has some undulating[c] hills and some wooded sections that require some mental toughness,” said Wilson.
According to Wilson, the team needs to work on pacing the race better, and saving its energy for the last leg of the course.
Wilson said, “Next week, I think we need to strengthen our last mile of the race because we’ve been good at establishing ourselves in our first half of the race… I think what’s gonna get a lot of teams at Interschols or at bigger meets is our last mile, and if we can really solidify a really strong fast last mile with a strong kick at the end, I think we’ll be able to be a stronger team.”
The team will next race the 2018 Nepsac Champion team, Northfield Mount Hermon, during Andover’s Family Weekend for its first home meet of the season. 
 
EOFCXLII
 














































TRANSCRIPTIONS


Jack Wilcox ’22
The energy was pretty good; we were all pretty supportive of each other. We were all nervous, but also excited. We were all really hyped for each other. After the race, when people PRed or got a good time, everyone would give them pats on the back. Especially Will, he got a good time, so people were supportive.
 
Choate was more hilly; it was definitely a lot more work. This course was more flat and there was a little bit of hills, but it was mostly pretty easy.
 
Will had a really strong performance, he got 17:42, which was a good time for him. Also our captain [Alex Fleury ’20] and Chris [PG ’20] ran really well.
 
I think we had a lot more new runners yesterday that had never run a race before, so I think that now that they’ve actually ran a race and that they’ve gotten all that nervous energy out of their system, they’ll be better for us, and that’s something we can improve on, getting our newer runners more accustomed to racing.
 
Back home, whenever we race, I’m from LA, so there’s not really much green there, it’s mostly just dust and it also gets really hot and dry, so here it’s really green, so it’s pretty when you run and there’s no dust and the temperature isn’t too hot.
 
Will Sheehy ’22
I think everyone was very supportive of each other. I remember during the race, this kid on our team in front of me, Ellerman, he fell right before the end of the race. The other team was supportive, like the guy asked if he was okay. But yeah, it was just good energy.
 
This race was definitely easier [than earlier races this season]. The course was easier, it was flat, and with each race, you gain more experience, and so they don’t feel as stressful, it was more fun.
 
We won, so that was good. We were happy with our performance. We got 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th. I PRed for cross country.
 
I think it’ll help [next race] that a lot of our newer runners will have more experience under their belt, so they’re more prepared for next week.
 
I think besides us winning, I think our team came together at this meet because we had a lot of new runners there. On the bus ride back, everyone was talking to each other, so it felt like a complete team.
 
[Compared to back home], it’s a lot nicer racing here. There’s no dust, and I like running on the trails because there’s stuff to look at, besides like sidewalk.
 
Harrison Wilson ’20
During the race, there was a lot of enthusiasm coming from the sidelines and along the course. There were a ton of parents at St. Pauls for the weekend, which livened the atmosphere quite a bit. I always love seeing our coaches at the one mile marker, the two mile marker, and of course at the finish line. They always cheer me on and help me keep going.
 
I always describe the St. Pauls course as being quite windy; there are a lot of twists and turns that kind of slow it down even though it’s a relatively flat course. It’s good practice for our interschols race, just because it has some undulating hills and some wooded sections that require some mental toughness.
 
I think we saw some stiffer competition than we thought we’d see. We were missing some of our top runners too due to injury and various reasons, so it’s good practice knowing we have a solid squad, that we can have a race even if we’re missing one or two of our top guys.
 
I think that I need to commend our PG Chris Ratcliffe who always does a solid job. He’s done very, very well. He’s got to be adjusting to a lot of different stresses, like new things at Andover, but he’s still raced amazingly during his first couple races of the season.
 
Next week, I think we need to strengthen our last mile of the race because we’ve been good at establishing ourselves in our first half of the race to the first two miles. I think what’s gonna get a lot of teams at Interschols or at bigger meets is our last mile, and if we can really solidify a really strong fast last mile with a strong kick at the end, I think we’ll be able to be a stronger team.
 
I think for this week it’ll be important to make sure that we recover well and sleep well for our Parent’s Weekend race. Next week is going to be our first home race this season, which means that there’s gonna be a lot of guys on the line, so I think it’s important for us to stay calm, be excited to have lots of parents and runners on the line, just to keep our consistency and our similar routine going.
 
Head Coach Patrick Rielly
The St. Paul's race featured the biggest group of runners we've had race this season, which was exciting. We had more than 30 compete--many wearing the blue for the first time--and based on the results, we're in a great spot as we look toward the rest of our season.
 
We're looking forward to a great test against NMH at home on Saturday. They're the reigning New England champions, so it will be a great opportunity for us to compete.
 
 


[a]is this clear it is St. Paul's parents weekend?
[b]not really, so I just got rid of it
[c]he really used this word in a quote?