“Into the Blue” Collection Promotes Conversations About Intersectional Identities
By Dori Rosenstrauch


BOFCXLII
Attendees thumbed through brand new copies of “Into the Blue” as students shared their stories from the collection. The “Into the Blue” launch party, held on Friday, October 11 in the Freeman Room, celebrated Out of the Blue’s (OOTB) second project with live student readings and free copies. 
A student-written collection, “Into the Blue” has been in the works for two years and consists of written and visual pieces pertaining to identity. According to Karen Sun ’20, a board member of OOTB, “Into the Blue” continues the goals of “Out of the Blue,” OOTB’s first project from 2015. 
Though the two works share similar themes, OOTB decided to restructure “Into the Blue” to reflect the intersectionality of identities.
“ …This book was actually inspired by some issues we had [in the] last book because the last book was sectioned by identity. And we realized that that was in violation of a lot of values we had concerning intersectionality, and so we wanted to make this an intersectional book. So instead of having chapters and sections by identity, we switched it up to have it in states of recognizing your identity and order to celebrate all the different types of ways we connect with who we are,” said Sun. 
Sabrina Codrington ’21 wrote an essay for OOTB, “How to Successfully Be Black on a White Campus,” that she shared at the launch party. Codrington believed that the live readings gave readers a different experience than the one they would have had by reading the piece on their own.
“I feel like a lot of people wouldn't really see people having these experiences at Andover, and it's really easy to stay in your own little bubble, but once you read these branches in the book you see that Andover’s so much bigger than just yourself,” said Codrington. 
In addition to recognizing new identities, communities, and experiences, some audience members connected with the stories on a personal level. Ben Perez ’23 related to a piece by Ashley Alvarez ’20[a] that resonated with parts of his own identity. 
“I could connect to it a lot. I'm Salvadoran and… she’s half-Mexican half-Salvadoran. I could connect to some [of] the language barriers and stuff like that as soon as they started talking, so hers is just one of the stories I resonated with,” said Perez. 
Apart from giving students the opportunity to share their perspectives, OOTB aimed to educate readers and audience members about the ways in which identity plays a role into each person’s Andover experience. Sun referred to the final chapter, “How to be an Accomplice,” as one example of the collection giving helpful and practical information to readers. 
“We tried to make it more educational… and thinking more about one and not only how we individually reconcile with our oppression, but also how do we reconcile with our privilege, and how do we turn that into a mode of education,” said Sun.
Derek Curtis, Programming and Digital Content Producer for the OWHL, is a faculty advisor for OOTB. Curtis appreciated the accomplice chapter of the collection because it prompted readers to stand in solidarity with their peers and community members. 
According to Curtis, “Into the Blue” reflects the ways in which Andover’s community members interact with each other, and he believes that these efforts are imperative to solving issues of equity and inclusion on campus. 
“Andover has traditionally been a school that has served a particular set of students, primarily white, and well to do. It's been a hetero-normative place. And we are now in the process of making the school much more equitable and much more inclusive space. And this work here that the students are doing and the students do throughout the year this is kind of a capstone publication in a way. But the work that the students do here is kind of crucial to the much larger work that's going on to make Andover a place that feels like a community for everyone in here,” said Curtis.
EOFCXLII


































Interviews:
Sabrina Codrington ’21
Me: Thank you could you just say your name for the recording.
Sabrina: Sabrina Codrington. 
Me: Awesome. Thank you so much. So what is this event?
Sabrina It's like... a, like the book or just like what they're holding right now?
Me: Either one. 
Sabrina: Okay. Um, so into the blue is the second book that out of the blue has released since my time at Andover, and this was just an opportunity for people to come and see people read it out loud, because it definitely has a different effect. You see hearing things, read out loud than just reading it in the book.
Me: Why do you think an event or a book like this is important?
Sabrina: It's important because without the book, I feel like a lot of people wouldn't really see people having these experiences at Andover, and it's really easy to stay in your own little bubble, but once you read these branches in the book you see that Andover’s so much bigger than just like yourself.
Me: So how does this book differ from out of the blue? or does it?
Sabrina: It differs, it's definitely smaller and I think the works in into the blue, definitely have more of an impact than the ones and out of the blue. Just in relatability, and how easy they were to read.
Me: How long has this been being worked on?
Sabrina: I'm not sure.
Me: What did you do here tonight?
Sabrina: I read my piece on page 16. Um, and I basically just shared my experience with others.
Me; What was your favorite part of the book or writing the book?
Sabrina: Um, I really liked… I really liked the editing process because I … had written it for my English class, and I thought it was really interesting to see how people outside of a classroom setting would view it and suggest edits.
Me: Thank you so much, really helpful.
 
Karen Sun ’20:
Me: Could you say your name to the recording please.
Karen: Karen Sun. 
Me: Thank you. So what is this event?
Karen: This is the book launch for out of the blue, we have been working on this book for forever. We're so happy, we're so proud of it. And we just wanted to invite everybody to celebrate with us and have a giant party and just celebrate the people and writers who made this book possible and have some of them read it because it's really empowering stand up and tell your story in front of people.
Me: You said it's been in the works for a long time. What was the process like?
Karen: It was... so I joined the board kind of halfway through the process so I can only tell you about the second half, but it was super long- we have a lot of arguments, it's because we all kind of bring different perspectives into the board. We all had a lot of, really nuanced conversations we went super in depth about what stories belong where, how should we order the book, what stories would we even plan the book, and just in general, like, how do we structure this book to make it one as educational as possible and two as timeless as possible. 
Me: Do you have a favorite part of the book, or favorite part of planning it?
Karen: My favorite part of the book isn't specifically a story but rather like the structure of it, because this book was actually inspired by some issues we had last book because the last book was sectioned by identity. And we realized that that was in violation of a lot of values we had concerning intersectionality, and so we wanted to make this an intersectional book so instead of having chapters and sections by identity, we switched it up to have it in states of recognizing your identity and order to celebrate all the different types of ways we connect with who we are.
Me: Are there any other differences too out of the blue?
Karen: We tried to make it more educational, so having the section in the back, called how to be an accomplice, and thinking more about one and not only like how we individually reconcile with our oppression, but also how do we reconcile with our privilege, and how do we turn that into a mode of education. 
Me: How did the event go?
Karen: so good so many people showed up and I was so so so so
happy and so just like grateful for everybody who came, everybody who read, the food was good, the people were good, the music was good, and honestly that's all you can ask.
Me: That's awesome. Thank you so much. 
Karen: Yeah.


Ben Perez ’23:
Me: Could you please say your name for the recording?
Ben: Benjamin Perez.
Me: Awesome. Thank you. So why did you choose to come to this event?
Ben: Well, um, there was a meeting like a couple weeks ago that I was invited to for Out Of The Blue. And I guess it's like a book club that, you know, for people of color, and I just got interested by the, by like the stories, and stuff like that, that they kind of previewed, and also we had an ASM, and we went to Borden it and then basically they read like the one of the stories from into the blue. And then I thought there was a really nice story even though some people didn't resonate with it, I resonated with it and I kind of wanted to check out.
Me; what happened at the event?
Ben: Which one?
Me: This one. 
Ben: Oh this one. We talked about the book. Just read some of the stories, and some people who didn't make the book got to share some of their work and talk about the process of making it, and you know you had a pretty nice time, ate some cheese. 
Me: What was your favorite part?
Ben: Um, I think reading the stories was like, probably the best. And you know, it was a really well structured and it was a very concise, which was nice. 
Me:Do you have a favorite part of the book or favorite passage that was shared?
Ben: Um I like Ashley's. Ashley Alvarez’s story, I forgot the name of it but I could connect to it a lot. Well I'm Salvodran and as you saw she’s half Mexican half Salvadoran, I could connect to some like the you know the language barriers and stuff like that as soon as they start talking about so this is just like one of the stories I resonated with.
Me: Thank you so much. 
Ben: Yeah.


Christy Wei ’21:
Me: Say your name for the recording please.
Christy: Yeah. My name is Christy- Christy Wei. 
Me: All right, thank you so much. What is this event? 
Christy: It's the launching of OOTB- out of the blue. 
Me: Why did you choose to come?
Christy: I came here because a lot of my friends were a part of the magazine and I thought it was really cool to see like an actual book launching instead of just like an artist talk because it feels like more major.
Me: what happened at the event?
Christy: So, some people like went up and recited their works like a poem or  read their essays and in the end everyone like stuck around and talked about it.
Me: What was your favorite part of the event?
Christy: I really liked it when Adya recited her poem, because it felt really emotional, and I really liked her reading and just seeing someone doing it firsthand is very cool. 
Me: Why do you think an event or a book like this is important?
Christy: I think it means that when we care and it really like powerfully challenges everyone to think about the same thing that the authors were thinking about. So, yeah, it's very powerful. 
Me: Thank you so much.         


Derek Curtis:
Me: Could you just say your name for the recording please? 
Derek: Derek Curtis 
Me:Thank you. What is this event?
Derek: So this event is the book launch for into the blue which is the second volume put out by out of the blue, a club on this campus that is focused on non traditional Andover voices, so they had an original volume called out of the blue and this is the second volume which they chose to call into the blue. Because out of the blue was an idea that these voices were somewhat outside of this community, the change now with into the into the blue so the idea that these actually are a crucial voice in a central voice of this community.
Me: How else does it differ from out of the blue?
Derek: So, it's really the same kind of format- my understanding is that it's the same sort of format, kind of your non traditional Andover voices and outside of that, I don't think there is much of a change. It’s kind of a continuation of the same thing-trying to highlight some students, what students are thinking about, how students are thinking about their identity as it relates to Andover, and the larger world. So I think it's really kind of continuation of that work. 
Me: Why do you think an event or a book like this is important?
Derek: Because Andover has traditionally been a school that has served a particular set of students primarily white, and well to do. It's been a hetero-normative place. And we are now in the process of making the school much more equitable and much more inclusive space. And this work here that the students are doing and the students do throughout the year this is kind of a capstone publication in a way. But the word the students here is kind of crucial to that much larger work that's going on about making Andover a place that feels like a community for everyone in here.
Me: Do you have a favorite part of the book?
Derek: I like the section on how to be an accomplice. I think we're all learning to help this-to help other people as they make their way through Andover and as we try to do our best in solidarity with others, to build a more just world.
Me: How long is this book been in the works?
Derek: My understanding is the book has been in the works for two years,
you'd want to talk to students there about that, but my understanding it's been two years.
Me: Thank you so much. 
Derek: Thank you Dori nice to meet you.
[a]Do we know the name of Ashley's piece?