Opening of School ASM Emphasizes Changes as New Beginnings
Aaron Chung


BOFCXLII


To the rhythmic beats of Drumline, laughs and cheers of new and returning students alike filled Cochran Chapel, with chants of  “2020” echoing throughout the pews. On Friday, September 13, students sat in on the All-School-Meeting (ASM) of the 2019-2020 school year, kicked off by the international students’ flag-bearing procession, a faculty procession, and the annual entry of the Senior class. 
The ASM featured student speeches given by Co-Presidents Sebastian Romero ’20 and Shahinda Bahnasy ’20, as well as new international students Gaia Dolenc-Bueno ’22 and Jason Zhang ’23. Each of the speakers shared their personal remarks on the start of the 2019-2020 year. Additionally, Alianza Latina Co-Presidents Daniel Dominguez ’21 and Ashley Alvarez ’20 spoke about the implementation of Phillips Academy Latinx Heritage Month, which will run from September 15 to October 15.
As a new student this year, Andrew Falcon ’22 was excited to see the high energy that was set for the start of the school year. Falcon expressed how seeing the Seniors walk through the Cochran Chapel halls provided him a moment of reflection. 
“I thought the ASM had really great energy, and watching my Senior proctors walk down the aisle was something very interesting to see. It is amazing to think that I will be in their shoes in only two years,” said Falcon. 
Romero and Bahnasy emphasized the importance of forging meaningful relationships and seeking support from one another in order to have a successful Andover life. 
In her speech, Bahnasy said, “When I first came in as a Junior, I made it a goal to recognize and name every student on this campus. I failed my Junior, Lower, and Upper year. This year, my last year at Andover, is my final chance. I am sharing this with you because I want all of you to do the same. We all go to classes together, eat in Commons together, and attend ASM together. Imagine how much more inviting this campus would be if we all knew the names and faces of everyone in this room.”
Romero echoed Bahnasy’s sentiment, explaining that at a time of major new changes to the schedule and faculty, it is crucial to rely on each other for a smooth transition. 
“We are attending Andover during times of new beginnings. In these times, it is important to stick together. Nobody expects any of you to adapt to this new school year seamlessly. But if we help each other and lend a hand, we will be able to make this transition as easy as possible. We want you to be supported in moments of vulnerability. Our hope is for you to take the next step, being outside of the box and taking that risk,” said Romero.
Dolenc-Bueno and Zhang shared their own perspectives on the opening of school. While they agreed with Bahnasy and Romero on the points of unity and meaningful relationships, they were able to emphasize the international aspect of being a new student by touching on their personal experiences.
Despite her short time at Andover so far, Dolenc-Bueno shared her thanks to friends and support systems that helped her quickly adjust to a new environment. She plans on embracing different opportunities and experiences in the future as well. 
“The special part about Andover is that there [has been] a support system since the moment I arrived on campus. From [New International Students Orientation] which has been extremely helpful in adjusting to the school and allowed me to meet many people even before the start of school, and my dorm and cluster, I find comfort in all different parts of the school,” said Dolenc-Bueno.  
She continued, “I feel like everyone here, especially my friends, want each other to succeed. They are rooting for us, and they also understand that we are human and we cannot be the best versions of ourselves everyday, especially when teenage mood swings and emotional breakdowns occasionally come into play. I plan on living up to the support given by everyone.” 
Zhang expressed his gratitude for all students and faculty who helped him integrate into the Andover community.
 “On the first day of school, I encountered a returning Lower. Although I could immediately see the look in his eyes shift when hearing that I was a new Junior, he kindly patted me on the back and with his smile, he provided me with so much advice and encouragement. For the past two weeks, the overall hospitality of the community has made me feel truly welcomed,” Zhang said. 
Building off the idea of seeking support from others, Interim Head of School Jim Ventre ’79 concluded ASM by explaining that the advice he received as an Andover student ultimately guided him in becoming the person he is now. Using a personal anecdote, Ventre encouraged Andover students to do the same for the upcoming year. 
Ventre said, “We have an extraordinary combination of people, mission, and principles. Our school of people brings joy together, with the help of one another. My Andover story is all about the people who helped me. Sticking together is the only way through, the only way to feel confident and safe while bringing out the best in one another. If I didn’t follow the advice given by the helping adults around me, I would not have been able to stand here at this moment today.”
EOFCXLII






---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Jennifer Elliot ’94 P’22 (Assistant Head of School for Residential Life and Dean of Students)
For those of you who maybe a bit sensitive to sound, I just want to give a bit of a warning that this next opening of school ASM could be a little bit wild. 


Linda Carter Griffith (Associate Head of School for Equity, Inclusion and Wellness)


I am here to say that I am so excited to be present in this exact moment and to honor the Class of 2020. I have immense gratitude and appreciation for all that the incredible faculty behind and in front of me will be doing to make this an incredible year for each of you. 


Danny Dominguez ’21 & Ashley Alvarez ’20 


Dominguez: I would like to introduce the Alianza Latina to all of you today, which is an alliance of all students and members of the Andover community who identify as Latinx on this campus. We will continue our usual work of celebrating our heritage, especially as the month ahead of us marks the school’s first ever Latinx Heritage Month. I encourage every single person who identifies as Latinx to come to our regular meetings and become part of our family, which meets every week at different times. With all these stuff going on, Alianza will also go through slight changes. 


Alvarez: And this is year of change from the new schedule to the Class of 2020 now becoming Seniors. Similarly, the Latinx Heritage Month and weekend events will be something of a change to the school as well. Danny and I would like to thank everyone who was involved in organizing these events. We would not have been able to plan the first Latinx Heritage Month without you. Most importantly, we would like to thank CAMD for always providing such a safe and secure place. 


Alvarez: A celebration called Phillips Academy Latinx Heritage Month, to light up the national celebration of Hispanic heritage month, from September 15th to October 15th. Our first event of the month is a collaboration with Viva, Andover’s first Latinx dance group. Along with the co-head of the group, Karen Samantha Guzman ’22, we invite you to be at our open house from 6 to 7 PM in the modern dance studio in Saturday, September 28th. You will get to learn basic Latin dance steps, or become a part of the group. 


Dominguez: We would also like to invite all of you to keynote speakers of the month. Speakers of the Latinx Heritage Month, titled, “Beyond Andover,” will be sharing their stories of success in the Underwood [room] on Friday, October 4th, from 6:30 to 7:45 PM. This panel of alumni, who identify as Latinx and in a range of profession, will provide the chance for Andover students to be inspired and connect to Andover’s alumni network. 


Alvarez: We will also be co-hosting the annual Salsa Night in the Den with Viva in the den on Friday, October 4th, from 9 PM to 10 PM, or 11 PM if you are a Senior. 


Dominguez: Additionally, we will be hosting the Latinx regional dance, which will be on Saturday, October 5th, from 8 to 11 PM. Our group will be inviting multiple Day and Boarding schools around the area for the night. As a way of relaxing and rewinding from all those activities, we will have a screening of Coco in Kemper from 3:30 to 5 PM the following day. 


Alvarez: Our last event will be Alianza’s first open door meeting on Tuesday, October 15th, from 5:30 to 6:30 PM in CAMD. Alianza invites all of you, no matter how you identify yourself as, to this meeting to celebrate the last day of PA Latinx Heritage Month. Hope you all come. 


Sebastian Romero ’20 and Shahinda Bahnasy ’20


Romero: Good morning everyone. The Andover journey may seem and is long, but trust me, it is worth it. Winter is coming. But together, we will make it. And today, Shahinda will bless you all with some knowledge. 


Bahnasy: To begin with a quote, as Drake once said, “Mentally, I’m already on next year.” That’s some 2020 vision. For many of you, this may be your last or first All School Meeting. Regardless of whether it is your first or last, we want you to look at everyone around you. These are the people who you will see everyday for the next year. These are the smiles you will see as you walk to class, and familiar faces that are by your side. When I first came in as a Junior, I made it a goal to recognize and name every student on this campus. I failed my Junior, Lower, and Upper year. This year, my last year at Andover, is my final chance. I am sharing this with you because I want all of you to do the same. Andover is made up of almost 1200 students. We all go to classes together, eat in Commons together, attend ASM together. Imagine how much more inviting this campus would be if we all knew the names and faces of everyone in this room. 


Romero: We are attending Andover during times of new beginnings. Things are changing, especially at a time with new people, new buildings, new beginnings, new friends, new Head of School. In these times, it is important to stick together. Nobody expects any of you to adapt to this new school year seamlessly. But if we help each other and lend a hand, we will be able to make this transition as easy as possible. 


Romero: For the Class of 2020, this is the final year at Andover left for all of us. Take advantage of the precious time we have with each other as a class. Let us embrace the top floor of the library, appreciate the opportunities that are available for us, and step out of our comfort zone. 


Bahnasy: Andover is your own experience. This is your opportunity to develop and expand your passions. The resources at the school are endless and there to help you. Whether becoming a member of a dance group or student council committee, there will always be something for you to do. Develop the passion to learn and be knowledgeable, and know that open-mindedness leads to a successful Andover experience. We also want you to be supported in moments of vulnerability. Our hope is for you to take the next step, being outside of the box and taking that risk. 


Romero: As a our presidency’s first initiative, there will be a school-wide campaign to benefit Hurricane Dorian victims in the Bahamas. We are going to be donating to a campaign to an organization called, “???,” run by a member of the Class of 2021, Salvador Gomez. 


Romero: Both Shahinda and I know the potential that this school community has. It is up to each of us to fulfill our potentials, help each other, and embrace our accomplishments. 


Gaia Dolenc-Bueno ’22 and Jason Zhang ’23


Dolenc-Bueno: Hello, my name is Skyler, and I am a new Lower from Jamaica Republic. 


Zhang: “, I am a Junior from Shanghai, China. 


Dolenc-Bueno: I was a little reluctant when first asked to speak for the school, because it was out of my comfort zone and I have never done it before. Having said, I later realized that it was the precise reason why I should do it. I come from a family of four, my brother, parents, and I. Throughout my life, I have become an international student even before coming to Andover, ranging from Jamaica, Slovenia, and south of France. But never have I encountered a community as diverse as one that we are fortunate enough to be part of. 


Zhang: On the other hand, I have only received an education in Shanghai until I decided to be an international student at a private Boarding school located in Southborough, Massachusetts. It was the first time that I was exposed to such a diverse community and all the fun and benefits from being at a Boarding school. Therefore, when I received the news that I was accepted by the best high school in the U.S., I immediately accepted the honor and decided to continue on with a new chapter. After going through 7th to 9th grade in my old school, I repeated 9th grade to have a full 4 years of high school experience. 
On the first day of school, I encountered a returning Lower. Although I could immediately see the look in his eyes shift when hearing that I was a new Junior, he kindly patted me on the back and with his smile, he provided me with so much advice and encouragement. For the past two weeks, the overall hospitality of the community made me feel truly welcomed. 


Dolenc-Bueno: The special part about Andover is that there is always a support system from the moment I arrived on campus. From NISO, which had been extremely helpful in adjusting to the school, orientation that allowed me to meet many people even before the start of school, my dorm, and cluster, I find comfort in all different parts of the school. I feel like everyone here, especially my friends, want each other to succeed. They are rooting for us, and they also understand that we are human, and we can not be the best versions of ourselves everyday, especially when my teenage mood swings and emotional breakdowns occasionally come to play. I plan on living up to the support given by everyone. 


Dolenc-Bueno: To be honest with all of you, I applied to Andover because I wanted to try out whether I would get in or not. But the bigger part was that I didn’t feel that I was not doing much. I wanted to try more things, which was a little hard for me to do in the environment that I was in. Though there was a part of me that doubted whether I could stay away from my family and all other elements, when I visited the campus, the idea of not going to Andover seemed absurd to me. Seeing all these unfamiliar students and going through a  curriculum that I am not used to is terrifying. But the opportunities that Andover gives, and the life experience, and the people make it all worth it. 


Zhang: I think it is important to note that everyone is unique in their own way, and that is what makes everyone in this building special. 


Jim Ventre


I bet that all of you may have had an assortment of feelings over the past few weeks. Feelings of anticipation, joy, inspiration. Perhaps some humility and even some remorse. You have been consulting with one another, and most of you have been connecting with the adults in your life. Some of us are better in connecting with one another and sorting out those feelings. Yet what is important in these moments is that we understand how much we need each other. It is a tradition of every first school ASM to choose your angel in the top of the chapel. To me these angels represent a reminder to think about how we care for one another, how we notice another, and how we may reflect on the opportunity to understand each other’s feelings. Not to judge one another simply by what we see on the outside, but the inside of others. It will keep us together in sorrowful and challenging times. Let us reflect on our ambition to stick together and make us one Andover. 


I want to reassure you that many years ago, when I was sitting in the student seats of the Cochran chapel, there was no way I thought that I would ever be standing here. This reminds me of the school’s motto, “Finis Origine Pendet,” which means that the end depends on the beginning. We have an extraordinary combination of people, mission, and principles. Our school of people brings joy together, with the help of one another. My Andover story is all about the people who helped me. Sticking together is the only way through, the only way to feel confident and safe while bringing out the best in one another. While we acknowledge your journey together as teenagers, be mindful that we treat you like adults. It was the same for me as a student at Andover. We trust you, we know that from experience, most of the time, you do the right thing. However, none of us will get it right all the time. We make mistakes, but we are here to learn together the lessons and to let go. By living with a sense of optimism and letting go of the negativity, and recognizing moments when we are worn down, we rely on one another. While we live in a world with no certain outcomes, that it is much easier to live with negativity, let us join together to combine our bravery, courage, and embrace our culture that creates an everlasting joy of positivity. 


Let no one go through Andover alone. We have a deep sense of what we do and why we do it. It starts with connecting to our Non Sibi spirit. For the past couple of weeks, you have been given much advice. If I didn’t follow the advice given by the helping adults around you, I would not have been able to stand here at this moment today. All of us, the students and faculty alike, have been chosen. You have been selected, and been decided upon the right for Andover and you have earned your place and you are here for a reason. 


Andrew Falcon ’22


I thought the ASM had really great energy, and watching my Senior proctors walk down the aisle was something very interesting to see. It is amazing to think that I will be in their shoes in only two years.