Andover Girls Volleyball Suffers Back-to-Back Losses 
Emily Kelly


BOFCXLII


Andover Girls Volleyball traveled to St. Paul’s this past Friday and suffered its first loss of the season, losing its undefeated title. The team fell 3-0 (21-25, 20-25, 24-26). The loss, coupled with another loss against Phillips Exeter Academy, brought the team’s record to 9-2. 
According to Adaeze Izuegbunam ’20, the team had difficulty adjusting to the Friday game time which was different than the usual Saturday and Wednesday game days. This switch which was necessary to accommodate to St. Paul’s Family Weekend. 
“We typically don't play on a Friday… we just had to sit on the bus, and I think overcoming the… mental block of this isn't what we are used to. [We had] to rebuild the on court chemistry,” said Izuegbunam. 
The St. Paul’s team had unique offensive players, forcing Andover to adjust its hitting and defense, according to Ridley Warner ’22. 
Warner said, “We needed to get used to the defense, since they were hitting us short balls instead of longer balls that we are used to. Getting to the shorter balls is definitely something we can work on more.”
An additional difficulty the team had to face was the absence of several starters and a consequent lineup adjustment, according to Captain Chioma Ugwonali ’20.
“Our team dynamic was a little off because we played with a new rotation that we had not practiced much before. It was difficult to keep our spirits up while adjusting to St. Paul’s skilled offense and our single block on the outside, ” said Ugwonali.
Although the team ultimately lost, Andover made a comeback in the second set and secured a 6-1 lead as a result of crucial saves from setter Sarah Chen ’21 and Izuegbunam, according to Ugwonali. 
Ugwonali said, “I am incredibly proud of Sarah Chen, who set the entire game and made some phenomenal saves. Sarah also scores many of our points through her powerful serves. 
Adaeze Izuegbunam made a beautiful left hand strike towards St. Paul’s setter, who was unable to dig the ball in time. Adaeze’s play helped boost our morale.”
Additionally, Andover lost 1-3 against Exeter this past Wednesday. Despite this loss, the team demonstrated strong serve-receive skills, according to Michelle Brunetti ’23. 
“The hardest thing to overcome this game was getting the frequent tips and hard hits from the outside, [but] in practice we have worked a lot on serve-receive, which showed in the game,” said Brunetti. 
Andover will next face Northfield Mount Hermon at home for Parents’ Weekend this Saturday. 
Editor’s Note: Sarah Chen is a Digital Editor for The Phillipian.


EOFCXLII
















































Chioma Ugwonali ‘20


How was the team dynamic on Saturday?
Our team dynamic was a little off because we played with a new rotation that we had not practiced much before. It was difficult to keep our spirits up while adjusting to St. Paul’s skilled offense and our single block on the outside.  


What is something that the team needs to improve on before the next game?
We need to work on recovering our skills after the opposing server aces us or we shank a ball. We also need to improve on staying active and prepared to dig short balls. We can have great defensive skills, but our most recent game showed a lack of consistency. 


Was there anyone that stood out or any plays that stood out?
I am incredibly proud of Sarah Chen ’21 who set the entire game and made some phenomenal saves. Sarah also scores many of our points through her powerful serves. 
Adaeze Izuegbunam ’20 made a beautiful left hand strike towards St. Paul’s setter who was unable to dig the ball in time. Adaeze’s play helped boost our morale.


What is one thing that you did well this game?
We also did well on our offensive front. However, we need to work on our foundation: the first pass.


Ridley Warner ‘22


How was the team dynamic on Saturday?


It was okay, it was hard to have to have some of our players out of the game. But we were able to definitely make a comeback although we ultimately lost.


What was the hardest thing to overcome?


We needed to get used to the defense since they were hitting us short balls instead of longer balls that we are used to. Getting to the shorter balls is definitely something we can work on more.


Is there anything that you have been working on in practice that showed in the game?


I would say definitely our hits are getting better from the start of the season.


What is one thing the team did well on?


Coming back after like losing, we just kept wanting to play and kept getting closer and closer to St. Pauls.


What is something the team needs to work on before the next game?


Communication and making sure we are talking and calling for the ball and that we don't get confused and we just go for it instead of waiting and setting back.


Is there one interesting play or a stand out person?


I'd say Brooklyn Worth and Lauren Clark stood out because Lauren had a such a good back-rope passes and then Brooklyn had great hits. And Sarah Chen she's our setter, she set the entire game and did very well.


Adaeze Izuegunam ‘20


What was the hardest thing to overcome?


I think there were a couple things that we didn't have our starting lineup, the lineup that we have been starting with. That and we typically don't play on a Friday which is especially to be away after we just finished our classes. Personally I like to sleep when the week is over. We just sort of have to sit on a bus and I think overcoming the mental block of like our team is so strong like all around but there is like a mental block of just like this isn't what we are used to and sort of having to rebuild like the on court chemistry. I think and especially after we're very good at coming back I would say but I think like we were necessarily fully in the mental space to do so on a Friday.


Is there anything you need to improve on before your next game?


In practice today, so we're  a pretty good team like defensively but we are also very used to like being in the right spot, well it depends so a lot of the teams some of the teams we play, I would like to say that Chioma and myself are pretty strong, we are our starting middles, and were pretty evenly matched; the way we play is just different from a lot of the other middles in the league ad like before we're are very used to as a team practicing against us but like not all middles play the same way we do and sometimes we are like we can practice against ourselves but we have to be able to adjust to new teams that and like we are used to like balls coming to us or being in the right spot where we need to work on a little more on anticipating that not everything's gonna necessarily going to go our way but also just being ready to adjust, anticipate but the key is adjustment and being willing to switch things up even if you know what may have worked for us before isn't working now. Every team is a new team.


Are there any plays that stood out to you or any players?


I feel like anything that Mudmee does, Mudmee is a whole queen, but like there were a lot of moments of just like I think overall there were moments of individuals doing some really great things like Chioma, I mean as usually icon. So I had a decent serving one in the first srt, but when it came around to the third like I could not get my serves over so Violet ended up serving for me, and not that it was like some super fancy serve but just like us needing to get that ball in play more-so than trying to ace people just Violet's ability to keep her composure and focus on the next, each point is your own point, we are focusing on moving forward and not dwelling on the past. Her ability to do that and keep everyone on task is really important so like Violet like period.


Game 2-
Ridley Warner ‘22


How was the team dynamic?


The team dynamic was good, especially in the third set, which we won although we ultimately lost.


What was the hardest thing to overcome?


Hardest thing to overcome was getting used to their cross hits and communicating with each other.


What was one interesting play and can you please describe it?


We had one play where the ball kept going back and forth over the net, and everyone kept pushing it over.


Michelle Brunetti ‘23


What was the hardest thing to overcome?


The hardest thing to overcome this game was getting the frequent tips and hard hits from the outside. 


Is there anything that you have been working on in practice that showed during the game?


In practice we have worked a lot on serve receive which showed in the game.


What is one thing the team did well on?


The team did well on receiving the hard hits from outside. Especially Violet. 


What is something the team needs to improve on before the next game?


I think one thing the team needs to improve on is keeping our energy up throughout the entire match.


What was one interesting play and can you please describe it?


There was one play where one of our players shanked the ball and Violet was able to run it down all the way to the bleachers and get a touch on it which was an amazing save.