Interview w/ Faye Yu ’20
Could you talk a little bit about both the clubs you’re involved in?
I actually run both Astronomy Club and ACSA (Andover Chinese Student Association), and since this is a collab event, I got to be a part of organizing most of it through both clubs. ACSA, in collaboration with the Chinese department, was in charge of the moon cakes downstairs, which was really fun. I [also] helped set up the telescope with Ms. Odden.


The event is going really well, this is super cool, because we’ve never had this many people at Astronomy club ever. I’m just so grateful and excited to see this many people actually pay attention to Astronomy club and have this many people actually acknowledge the fact that we have such a cool observatory on campus. 


What went into preparing for the event?
On ASCA’s part we shot a lot of emails to the Chinese department, and we asked when and where we could organize the event. We eventually found our way to Ms. Odden, who is in charge of the Physics department, and we decided a couple days ago that we would host the event in the observatory.[a]


Could you talk a little bit about the festival itself?
The Mid-Autumn Festival is a Chinese celebration that we do in mid-autumn. It comes with a lot of different myths and different Asian countries have different myths about this holiday, but the Chinese version is that there’s a girl who swallowed a magical pill and turned into a goddess and flew to the moon. The people that knew her during her lifetime really missed her so on that particular day every year, they celebrate and make her mooncakes. This is a big celebration in China, and there we get days off of school, so as part of A.C.S.A. I just really wanted the [Andover] community to be aware that this is a festive season.


How do you think the night is going so far?
The night was really successful, the line was so long that I couldn’t believe my eyes. So many people were wowwing at the moon and I am very impressed by just how responsive the community is and how much they are willing to participate in a cool event on their Friday nights.




Interview w/ Maxwell Bao ’20
Why is this event important for students on campus?
Well here’s the thing, we have a significant Chinese student population, be they American Chinese or people from Chinese or from Taiwan or Hong Kong, or anyone simply anyone who is interested in Chinese culture. We believe that there are a lot of events or celebrations in China, such as the Mid-Autumn Festival that for Chinese students on this campus is very hard, especially for boarding students, for them to celebrate. I think these festivals help people come together as a family and do customary things like looking at the moon or eating moon cakes. What we are trying to do with events like this is to foster that same sense of community and family out here. We also want to spread the idea of these events because we think it’s important for Phillips Academy Students, we pride ourselves for being youth from every corner, but we can’t do that by just knowing someone who’s from China. You should learn about the culture, what they celebrate and what they value, and we believe that with an event like this we are truly able to showcase that in terms of our Chinese culture.




Interview with Jay Pae ’23
“They said that they have mooncakes and a telescope, and I like food and astronomy so I decided to come. I have watched space documentaries since I was very young, so I'm really into the general field. 


“I have a telescope at home, but the telescope here is a lot more powerful. My favorite part is the fact that the image is a lot clearer than what I have at home. It was an opportunity for me to see how they produce ultra-high definition images of outer space, especially the moon. Going up to the observatory was a great learning opportunity for me. Looking through my own telescope, everything appeared fuzzy. I learned that outer space can be very beautiful if you use the right equipment. If you go to the right place at the right time, you can get some good photos and have a great time. 


Cameron Kang ’21 and Evan Tsai ’21
“We decided to come to this event because our friend told us about it. There was nothing else to do tonight, so we came. 


Evan Tsai '21


“It's a special Chinese holiday, the Moon Festival. My parents texted me 'Happy Moon Festival' and told me to find some mooncakes to eat. It's an annual tradition, for mostly Chinese people, to eat mooncakes during this time of year. 


“I've never been up to the observatory before. I was really surprised by how state-of-the-art equipment was, and how well everything functioned. 






“My favorite part was waiting in line; it was a great opportunity to talk to friends who I haven't seen in a long time and catch up. 


“When you normally look at the night sky, the world is so polluted that you can't see the starts. Here, I saw the moon very clearly. 


“I'd always been interested in the stars, moon, and everything that goes on in the universe. I'd always figured that there's more to life than what we see day to day. I wanted to get a closer view to it, and see it in a way that a lot of people don't have the opportunity to. It's almost a waste if you don't come to see something as magnificent as what I saw tonight


Interview w/ Aleisha Roberts ’22
"The observatory was high-tech, like nothing I've seen before. I'm an international student, so we don't have fancy telescopes or this kind of technology where I live. It was really interesting to see all the equipment and to look at what type of equipment astronomers or others that look at the moon use on a daily basis. Since going up to the observatory, I plan on joining the astronomy club because of my newfound interest. 


"I saw the moon. It's like every picture you see on Google, and I didn't realize that it would actually look like that. 


"I learned that the universe is beautiful and there are so many things to look at. There is more than what the eye can see normally. Getting the opportunity to be here, I learned that I should take every opportunity that I can because you will see something that you might never get to see again. 




























Article: 


BOFCXLII
Artificial light poured out from the third floor of the Gelb Science Center, accompanied by the dim glow of the full moon. Dozens of mooncakes were laid out on two large tables by a long line of people who chatted as they waited by the stairs leading to the observatory. Students, dessert in hand, waited to get a closer look at the moon through the giant telescope.
Last Friday, the Astronomy Club and Andover Chinese Student Association (A.C.S.A.) collaborated to host this festive event, during which many members of the community came together to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival.
“The night was really successful; the line was so long that I couldn’t believe my eyes. So many people were ‘wow’-ing at the moon and I am very impressed by just how responsive the community is and how much they are willing to participate in a cool event on their Friday night,” said Faye Yu ’20, Co-Head of both Astronomy Club and A.C.S.A.
The Mid-Autumn Festival is a traditional Chinese holiday dedicated to the legend of a young girl who became a goddess and flew to the moon. Eating mooncakes and going moon-gazing are traditional celebrations for the Mid-Autumn Festival.
“The Mid-Autumn Festival is a Chinese celebration that we do in mid-autumn. It comes with a lot of different myths. This is a big celebration in China, and there we get days off of school, so as part of A.C.S.A. I just really wanted the [Andover] community to be aware that this is a festive season,” said Yu. 
Maxwell Bao ’20, Co-President of A.C.S.A., hopes celebrating festivals such as the Mid-Autumn Festival will encourage students to celebrate traditional Chinese holidays on campus.
“We believe that there are a lot of events or celebrations in China, such as the Mid-Autumn Festival that… is very hard, especially for boarding students, for them to celebrate. I think these festivals help people come together as a family and do customary things like looking at the moon or eating mooncakes,” said Bao.
The Moon Festival provided students with an opportunity to explore the observatory, experience a part of Chinese culture, and learn more about astronomy. One participant, Jay Pae ’23, noted the difference between his telescope at home and the one in the observatory, and how it impacted his outlook of the world. 
Pae said, “It was an opportunity for me to see how they produce ultra-high definition images of outer space, especially the moon. I learned that outer space can be very beautiful if you use the right equipment. If you go to the right place at the right time, you can get some good photos and have a great time.”


EOFCXLII










[a]also for future reference, transcripts at the bottom please