Behind the Scenes: College Counseling at Andover
By William Yue & Laura Ospina


BOFCXLII


For many students at Andover, a single question looms overhead: where am I going to go after I graduate? Starting at the beginning of Lower year, the College Counseling Office (CCO) assists students through the process of applying to colleges. Counselors operate under one main idea: understanding students and their interests before finding colleges that suit them, according to Sean Logan, Dean of College Counseling.
“[The process is] not, ‘Here’s a bunch of good schools, which ones do we put on your list, which ones do I fit into.’ We’re going to say to students, ‘That’s not how we do it.’ We start with getting to know you and figuring out things you might want, and also help students use search engines and help them figure out how to do it,” said Logan. 
There are currently thirteen college counselors, with students assigned to each. Student groups are intentionally diverse and representative of the greater Andover community. While each student works with their particular counselor, they also receive input from the collective power of the office.
Logan said, “Philosophically, we want every counselor to have a microcosm of the Andover population. What that means is that we don’t have specialists. Everybody in this office should be able to work with any type of individual that’s here. We do a process, then, that is actually pretty random.”
Araba Aidoo ’20 feels that she has developed a strong bond with her college counselor and encourages students to remember that they know what is best for themselves.
“Personally, I have a great college counselor. We're always in communication, he tells it to me straight like it is. There's no bluffing, there's no sugar-coating anything. He's always available which I really love... I think it's important to note that your college counselor is there to advise, you are the only person that knows what's best for you, so if you feel like you have to stray course from your college counselor, I think that's fine too,” said Aidoo.
By engaging in a variety of writing exercises and meetings with their counselor in an effort to reflect and understand themselves better, students take a step back and learn what they look for in a college. 
“Reflection is a very important part of college counseling: getting Andover kids out of that groove of ‘what’s next in my life,’ going a hundred miles an hour with hair on fire in the forward direction, and stopping and turning around and saying, ‘What have I just done? What am I good at, what am I not so good at, what do I like about Andover, what don’t I like about Andover?’ Really getting them to think long and hard about the choices they’ve made and things that have helped them be successful here, and really using that to look forward and say ‘What do you think you might need in your next four years?’” said Logan.
Sam Sheehan ’20 appreciated the college counseling process for helping him plan for his college applications. He also thinks the process could benefit from more individual, in-person discussion.
Sheehan said, “We established a plan for me to get work done for college, which was very helpful because even if I wanted to, I would have not been able to do it over the summer. However, I think the group meetings for college counseling were not as useful; the time would be better spent individually. In addition, I don’t know if the surveys are very efficient. I think that stuff would be better talked about in person.”
The CCO staff is constantly in professional development, continually visiting colleges and updating information during college fairs, according to Logan. They are also aware of issues present in higher education that may affect the college counseling process in the coming years, such as the Varsity Blues admissions scandal, and adapting to those circumstances. 
“In fact, our own admissions office and the College Counseling Office do our own internal reviews about what we do and we stay at the highest ethical standards we can stay to. Colleges are doing the same things,” said Logan.
During the college application process, students should strive to be academically well-rounded and be their own self-advocate. However, Logan also acknowledges the stress from outside sources and the publicity of the application process. 
“This is one of the downsides of being at an amazing place at Andover: everyone’s applying to college pretty much at the same time. Everyone knows Seniors are applying to college, so it raises that level of not only stress, but also of the public piece in it. So we really work with kids about how to deal with that,” said Logan. 
Logan encourages students to with Andover in an “honest and genuine” way, rather than worrying too much about the future. 
“Let’s not worry about what we can’t control, but really stay focused on Andover, because I do think this is a really unique high school experience. Not better or worse, but unique… I think one of the reasons why Andover students do very well in the college process is because they bring such a different perspective to a school because they have already lived in an intentionally diverse community for one, two, three, four years. That's pretty rare,” said Logan. 


EOFCXLII






Two-thirds of our students typically go middle to large size institutions and around 60%, roughly, tend to be New England-Atlantic South and then you get around 10% West, 10% Mid-West, 10% South, usually somewhere between 3-5% international. That's been consistent over the past few years as well


This is one of the downsides of being at an amazing place at Andover: everyone’s applying to college pretty much at the same time. Everyone knows seniors are applying to college, so it raises that level of not only stress, but also of the public piece in it. So we really work with kids about how to deal with that


How do you be a good self advocate? That’s another thing that we really want to push to our students. As you get into this process of looking at more selective schools, you’re going to need to be able to talk about yourself. How do you do that in a way that’s comfortable, not awkward, not arrogant, but gets across what you need to do.


0:00-8:00


So, we have a process which I would call “an organized random process.” What I mean by that is: right now we have thirteen college counselors. They’re not all solely college counselors. For example, Ms. Springer is the head of CAMD, Ms. Murata and Ms. Ware are EBI head coordinators, Ms. Shadeed is the head of the PALS program, and Mr. Shows is the head scheduler. So we have thirteen people, but they have other jobs. They also have a portion of kids here. Philosophically, we want every counselor to have a microcosm of the Andover population. What that means is that we don’t have specialists. Everybody in this office should be able to work with any type of individual that’s here. We do a process, then, that is actually pretty random. If there are families who have worked with a counselor in the past, we try to keep families together if we can. It’s not always possible but it usually is. Besides that, what we try to do is go through and make sure that we’re splitting up a diverse group of students for each counselor. We also employ a team approach to that. When I say we don’t have specialists, one of the ways we really support everybody, is that every week we meet for about an hour solely with two different groups of six and use the collective power of the office to talk about various students. Last week, on Friday, we had a bunch of people email out essays to read, and then Monday we all sat down and helped that counselor with the essays and give ideas for the student. Even though a student will have a one-on-one experience with a particular counselor, they also will get a lot of input on a consistent basis about building their lists, essays, and applications. So that’s philosophically how we put together counselors for kids.


We spend a lot of time working with students to get a sense of what their interests might be and who they are. We do a series of writing exercises with students, and we have one-on-one meetings with students. So between January and June of your Upper Year, there are a minimum of four one-on-one meetings with counselors. We also have group sessions that we do at different times of the year, and then there are also focus groups, so it might be on athletics, it might be on music, it might be on arts. There are a lot of opportunities for us to get to know students, and then there’s a process that we go through to help students. Again, reflection is a very important part of college counseling: getting Andover kids out of that groove of “what’s next in my life,” going a hundred miles an hour with hair on fire in the forward direction, and stopping and turning around and saying “what have I just done?” “What am I good at, what am I not so good at, what do I like about Andover, what don’t I like about Andover.” Really getting them to think long and hard about the choices they’ve made and things that have helped them be successful here, and really using that to look forward and say “what do you think you might need in your next four years?” Based off of that, we start to figure out what qualities a student is looking for, and what schools fit that, from the experience of the thirteen people at times. Starting from the premise of “here are the things I need: size, distance, location, major extracurricular,” but then also a lot of nuances within there. You might be a girl who’s really excited about STEM but wants to make sure there are some women in the physics department of X college. There will certainly be more things that kids drill down into, and the more they reflect and the more they think about what they want, the easier that becomes. But we start with that premise. Not, here’s a bunch of good schools, which ones do can we put on your list, which ones do I fit into. We’re going to say to students that’s not how we do it. We start with getting to know you and figuring out things you might want, and then we figure out, and also help students use search engines and help them figure out how to do it. But also from our experience, also help them create lists to start to research things.


We actually do quite a bit of professional development, and my folks will go out and visit multiple colleges every year. We have seven or eight people going to our national conference next week in Kentucky, and while people are out there, some are going a couple days early and stopping in St. Louis and doing a couple of visits there, and a couple of places before they go to Louisville. But generally when people get out there and are travelling, we get them to hopefully visit colleges every year, different kinds of colleges. We will do write-ups for those things and keep those write-ups for other people who don’t travel there, so they will have some of the information. Also in terms of people’s abilities to work in teams or groups, that’s the way we communicate a lot of information. This is my 31st year doing this. I’ve visited a lot of colleges, so I have a lot of information around colleges I’ve seen. This fall, we have two fairs coming up. One is last Wednesday in September, and then the first Wednesday in October. We tend to go around as counselors, and while students are there, we’ll go to tables that don’t have as many kids at them just to check in and see what’s new at those schools, and any things we don’t know. We have about 150 schools that come in the spring, and we similar check-ins with them. Over the summer, I analyze the data, so for the class of ’19, I will spend a lot of time this summer chopping up all the data, looking for trends, and trying to get a sense of what’s happening at those schools and things that I see. Then we use that data to help inform talking to students and figuring out which schools might fit that student, and also from a selectivity perspective, like how competitive they are. I think it’s from a number of different places, but to be a college counselor here, you’re constantly in a learning mode. You’re always getting out and visiting; people come here, so learning from them.


8:00-16:27
We really focus on process. What I mean by that is, I don't know anybody, I've been doing this for 31 years, that can promise outcomes. I feel like we can promise a really good, high-quality process, making sure that students and families are well-informed and understanding the choices they're making, understand what these colleges mean, from a financial aid perspective, from an academic perspective, from a social perspective, those sorts of things. It really helps students to build lists that give them a plan. I think that in terms of process, one of the things I look at closely, does everybody have a home? Does everybody have a school to go to? Does everybody have opportunities from a financial aid point of view? So I look at different kinds of contexts. In terms of Andover students attending schools, if you go on our website, the new profile we will probably post in the next week or so, it's not out yet. You can see where exactly last class matriculated, very strong year in terms of where kids went, in terms of across a whole variety of small liberal arts schools, larger universities. Two-thirds of our students typically go middle to large size institutions and around 60%, roughly, tend to be New England-Atlantic South and then you get around 10% West, 10% Mid-West, 10% South, usually somewhere between 3-5% international. That's been consistent over the past few years as well. I also tend to look at trends in terms of within the most selective schools in the country. Those are going to go up and down depending on who chooses what pools and what's in them. Andover kids continue to do well at highly selective schools. Mostly because I think one of the things we talk about a lot when you're 11th and 12th graders probably. I think what's really unique about Andover, there a lot of really good high schools out there. I could name a couple of public high schools in the Bay Area that have higher SAT scores than us. There are lots of really good high-end academic schools but I think Andover is unique in its ability to have a setting that has 1150 kids from a variety of 50 states and 50+ foreign countries. It comes from the scope of our faculty and the resources that we can bring to bear from museums and observatories. It's a super unique experience for a student between the ages 14-15 and 18-19. That's rare. I know very few schools in the world that have that time of experience. I think one of the reasons why Andover students do very well in the college process is because they bring such a different perspective to a school because they have already lived in an intentionally diverse community for 1, 2, 3, 4 years. That's pretty rare. I think one of the ways when we're working with students and looking at them, schools will take multiple kids from us because they fill multiple buckets for them. That's why you'll find that certain years where a selective school will take 5 kids and 15 kids because those kids are appealing and they do different kinds of things. Trends-wise, I'm more interested in those sort of things, like are we really making sure that kids have lots of opportunities, are we looking at financial aid, are we well-informing? Trends-wise we're always looking for ways on how to bring the stress down. Are there trends that we're seeing that we would recommend that students probably somewhere between up-wards of 12 to 14 applications at the higher end. Some students will do more than that for good reasons. But other students will do that because they think that if they apply to lot's of places, I'm going to get one of them. All the data I crunch that once you get over about 13 applications, your outcomes to go down, Partly because it's hard to manage so many applications and do the job that colleges want to see in terms of contact management and enrollment management and so forth. Those are the trends that I tend to look at a lot, how we help kids stay healthy and lower pressure and those kinds of things. Again, we're always looking to try and do that, but you can probably tell me as well, the pressure that you feel from outside sources around college and what that means and expectations and so forth. 


I would say to you that there are a number of issues going on with higher education. I think that question could be very different in a couple of years. There's a couple of things I've been  discussing with various people. There's a Justice Department into Early Decision and the Justice Department some of the decisions but especially, around religious issues. Like things in terms of offering extra incentive for kids to apply early, kids being able to apply to other schools once they've been matriculated, and also there's another provision about schools being able to recruit kids once they're at schools for transfer. Those have all been off limits in terms of ethical practice of higher education but the Justice Department is stepping in and saying those should go away. They're restricting trade and should go away. That could have a major impact on the college process. Probably not this year particularly in the years going forward. I'm sure you've all watched the Varsity Blues sandal. I think what that more highlighted along with the injustice of it was the length folks go to think about college and what's important about college and also shining a light on how there are ways to circumvent the system. Colleges are spending a lot of time this summer, in fact, our own admissions office and the college counseling office doing our own internal reviews about what we do and we stay at the highest ethical standards we can stay too. Colleges are doing the same things. I know colleagues at different colleges are starting to really rethink about how they work with student-athletes, artists, musicians, even when they're talking with other high schools and those sorts of things. That's a major issue that's going to continue to play out. There's a case, the decision is coming out this fall, from last fall, last winter I guess. Harvard was sued by an Asian-American group for discrimination. That could have a major impact. Whoever wins that case is still going to be appealed, it has a potential that it could go to the Supreme Court. It doesn't have to take it, it took a case similar a few years ago but it might. That could have a major impact on college admission in general. I think that question in a couple years is going to change. And really going to look at the inequity that the college process, like the Harvard case what it really pointed out in other ways, was the special favors that student-athletes can get, that alumni children get, that development cases get. What's the equity here as well? There's a lot of stuff that's in there.


16:23-


Right now, I would say to you, getting selective colleges, and that's where most of our kids are applying, there are always going to look for a level of academic excellence. You can say I have a 5.0 GPA at Andover. That doesn't mean a lot to a school until they spend some time looking at our profile, what's offered at Andover, what kind of community is it, who's here, what kind of courses are offered, what are you taking to get those grades, what grades have you gotten. There's a lot of what goes into just a GPA. They're going to look really closely at those things. Academic rigor, academics, where you're interests are, at the high school level, having a fairly broad background. Not specializing in the humanities as a 10th grader but having math, English, science, history, foreign language, so forth all the way through your four years. They are going to look academically first. That's going to set the table. There's probably not an Andover kid that a college in the US wouldn't say you wouldn't do good work here. We have really strong students here. There's probably not a school that will say we don't think you can do the work. The question is what else do you bring? If the school admits 40% of our applicants versus a school that admits 20% of our applicants. There are certainly going to be more scrutiny at the academics but they are also going to look really closely at extracurricular things, what you do, how long you've done it, awards you've won, leadership positions you hold, what you say in your essays, what teachers say about you. In every school, you can say that my dream school is UCLA. If you said what do I need to do to get in there, I could give you a sense of academically, here's where you probably need to be in this range, in test scores. Two years from now, UCLA doesn't know exactly what it wants beyond that. Right now, you might be an amazing tuba player... **basically talks about trumpeters for some time, main point: might not be the year for what you're good at, might need trumpeters one year, might be all full the other** Every year, those little twinks are going to change but academically, its within this range of academics, with test scores, we can give you a sense of here's where you need to be properly competitive for that type of institution. What else they want could be vary greatly. Philosophically, for us, we are always saying, and you'll hear it until it's coming out of your ears, if you engage in Andover's community in a way that is honest and genuine and you follow things that you really want to do, this is a unique place. Just by doing that, you're going to present that to a college. Instead of guessing what does so and so want two years from now, they don't really know and you might guess they want this and that's not what they want. Opposed to doing what you want to do, doing it well, and let's show it to them. There isn't a secret of x-school wants this and y-school wants this. It's more like Andover kids really like doing interesting things here, getting out of their comfort zone, trying different things. That doesn't mean being a part of 10 groups. What it means is have you been to the Addison and seen what's happened over there? Have you gone to a BRACE Center meeting or presentation? Have you gone to a hockey game? These things may not be the favorite thing you've ever done but it may actually trigger something in you that gets you thinking about something else and really make connections between things you haven't. That's really unique at the high school level. Most kids don't get a chance to do that and that's why a lot of the times Andover kids are really interesting at the college level because they're smart and they've done good work but they also have this broader perspective because of the community they've been in. 


We are constantly in tweak mode in the college counseling office. In terms of how we look at things, I would say to you that five years ago, I've been saying to the trustees every year, and this is my ninth year at Andover. For seven years, I've been saying that early decision is a really important thing. Kids being ready to take advantage of that is important because there are opportunities that can really impact what you want to do. A year ago, I said to the trustees, early is now regular and regular is now late. 


21:35-


Being able to take advantage of early. Our job as college counselors is to make sure every student is ready to apply to some place typically by November 1, or, there are some October 15 deadlines. Just to be able to take advantage of early. You don’t have to do it, but you should be able to do it. And we’ve added communication to families and kids in October to make sure we’re being as transparent and clear as possible, so they have a really good idea of how to think about this process, but we continue to think about those things. We continue to think about how we do programming. Family weekend for us is our big kickoff program for families so we continue to tweak that program and think about how we want to help families engage in this process. I don’t see any major changes in terms of philosophically changing how we do things. We are very committed to putting together a very high quality process, keeping students first in that process, and making sure that they have the information and tools they need to do well. And as a college counselor, that’s what makes it super fun. It’s not really fun if it’s just a conveyor belt of “here’s your list of schools,” as opposed to getting to know you, getting a sense of what you might be interested to, really helping you think it through. For me, the college process is a lot about growth for students, and as college counselors, we have five life skills that we focus on. Overall, I think we teach decision making. How do you do a good job of making decisions? But within those things, we talk a lot about becoming more self-reflective, I think that’s a really important trait that nobody at Andover does well: teachers, faculty, administrators, students, nobody I think does that really well. How do you be a good self advocate? That’s another thing that we really want to push to our students. As you get into this process of looking at more selective schools, you’re going to need to be able to talk about yourself. How do you do that in a way that’s comfortable, not awkward, not arrogant, but gets across what you need to do. This is a public process, unfortunately. This is one of the downsides of being at an amazing place at Andover: everyone’s applying to college pretty much at the same time. Everyone knows seniors are applying to college, so it raises that level of not only stress, but also of the public piece in it. So we really work with kids about how to deal with that. How do you deal with a public issue? Who are you going to talk to? How are you going to work through that stuff? We talk a lot about working with adults, like every other teacher does here. Both in the community, but also at the college level: talking to admissions people and helping them with that. And then the fifth one is this idea of How do you solve this problem? How do I make a good choice? We really push kids to lean in and engage. The more we find kids push away and don’t want to deal, the higher the stress level gets, the less they feel in control, and the more problematic it becomes. The important thing is How are you going to really take advantage of this place, get involved, and engage? Not, Do I need to take a sixth class, but really enjoying your time here. The biggest thing I’d say that college counseling wants kids to do, and I say this from a perspective of 19 years doing college admissions in a variety of places, travelling both domestically and internationally, seeing lots of high schools, is that this is a unique place. Don’t overlook it. Don’t already be focused on college and miss what is in front of you here. That’s a really important message I want kids to have. All the college counselors teach an EBI 11 class, the Connections class, and we asked all the kids what they’ve heard about Upper Year. And I’d say to you 90% of the things they talked about were negative: stress, pressure, and I get that. But I try to make the point with them that you’re here for a year. You need to find the joy. Let’s control what we can control. Let’s not worry about what we can’t control, but really stay focused on Andover, because I do think this is a really unique high school experience. Not better or worse, but unique. My hope is that kids will not overlook this place for something in the future. I will tell you that over my nine years here, the great majority of alums I talk to, who have been to all kinds of institutions of higher education, will say this was their seminal experience, their 2-4 years at Andover, not their college experience. So I do think it’s one of those things where let’s not be always thinking about what’s in the future and forgetting about what’s in front of you.
































SS (will add to):


We established a plan for me to get work done for college, which was very helpful because even if I wanted to, I would have not been able to do it over the summer. 


However, I think the group meetings for college counseling were not as useful; the time would be better spent individually. In addition, I don’t know if the surveys are very efficient. I think that stuff would be better talked about in person.


Araba Aidoo '20
I think college counseling can be really good or really bad depending on who you get for your college counselor. Personally, I think that if you get a good college counselor, they will ride or die for you. Personally, I have a great college counselor, we're always in communication, he tells it to me straight like it is. There's no bluffing, there's no sugar-coating anything. He's always available which I really love. Personally, I love my college counselor... I think it's important to note that your college counselor is there to advise, you are the only person that knows what's best for you so if you feel like you have to stray course from your college counselor, I think that's fine too.