Football Falls 17-7 to Kent in Season Opener
BOFCXLII
With two minutes remaining in the first quarter, Hunter Lane PG’20 recovered a fumbled long snap in the end zone, giving Andover the lead against Kent in its first game of the season. Despite Lane’s efforts, Andover fell 17-7 to Kent, putting its record at 0-1.
Facing a high-powered Kent offense, Andover’s defense remained consistently strong, according to Co-Captain Jake Jordan ’20. 
“Defensively, we looked really good. Kent had a very strong running back, but overall we worked really hard and shut him down in the first half of the game. We stayed strong and made it tough for them to run up the middle and forced them to change things up,” said Jordan.
“Our defense was extremely successful against Kent. They never gave up and were very disciplined,” added Head Coach Trey Brown ’12 in an email to The Phillipian.
Offensively, the team looks to build both its running and passing game as the season progresses, according to Jordan.
“It’s as simple as just that we need to get back in shape. Offensively, just being able to run a dynamic offense specifically by getting the run game going, and by doing so, we’ll get the pass game going. We also need to put everyone in a position to get the ball,” said Jordan. 
Despite it being early in the season, the team has started to bond well, according to Coach Brown. 
“I think the dynamic of the team is amazing. The foundation for the culture is there and everyone has bought into the four values of the program: Non Sibi, family, effort, and sportsmanship,” wrote Brown. “Now it’s just on us as coaches to teach our players what they need to do so we can be successful as a team…. I think there is open communication between players and coaches, coaches and coaches, and players and players. Everyone is having fun, learning from one another, and pushing one another to be better every day.” 
According to Thomas McAndrews ’22 and Baron Abrishami ’21, the team hopes to translate its off-field chemistry into its play on the field.
“As a team, we just need to keep gelling together... I feel like things will begin to take care of themselves once we learn to play with each other,” said McAndrews. 
“I’m excited to see how much we will develop this season. Right now we are a great team, but some things are just not clicking. I’m just excited for what we can do once we reach full potential because it’s going to be scary for the other teams we face,” said Abrishami.
The depth and versatility of the bench combined with its devotion will serve the team well this season, according to Jordan.
“My favorite part about this team is the effort that everyone puts in,” said Jordan. “There are a lot of great athletes on this team, but aside from the athleticism, everyone has been putting in a lot of effort. That effort really showed in the Kent game. We had guys going down injured left and right, but a lot of people stepped up and when they did they performed to the best of their ability.”
Andover will face Loomis Chaffee at home this Saturday.
Editor’s Note: Jake Jordan is a Live Editor for The Phillipian.


EOFCXLII