Andover Smashes St. Pauls in Second Dual Meet of the Season
BOFCXLII
Andover Girls Cross Country’s fastest racer for the second week in a row, Natasha Muromcew ’22, crossed the finish line with a time of 20:41 minutes, contributing to Andover’s 16-46 win over St. Paul’s this past Saturday.
Completing a first through fourth place sweep behind Muromcew were teammates Izzy Alvarez-Martinez ’23 with a time of 20:57 minutes, Tiffany Tang ’22 with a time of 21 minutes and 8 seconds, and Tessa Conrardy ’20 with a time of 21 minutes and 24 seconds. According to Ava Sullivan ’23, the flatter St. Paul’s course presented a new challenge to the team.
In an email to The Phillipian, Sullivan wrote, “A key takeaway from this meet is adjusting to the change of speed when it comes to a flat coarse like this one. During the races we have had this season, there have been at least two significant uphills which require a slight pace change, but also some long and steep downhills which help with speeding up. At St. Paul’s, the course didn’t have much of this change in elevation, which called for a different type of racing strategy and pace compared to what I had been used to.”
The team focused on using pack running to its benefit, helping to motivate each other throughout the race, according to Muromcew.
“Something notable is that our first five girls had an average time of 21 [minutes and 9 seconds] and we were all within one minute of each other…One thing that helped [the team] is our pack running. We’ve really hit a spot in which we can all race together or near each other, and that helps us push ourselves and each other further than we might expect,” wrote Muromcew in an email to The Phillipian.
Although the team lost five of its top runners from last year, it has bounced back this season with the help of newer runners, according to Muromcew.
Muromcew continued, “I think that we’ve had a little bit of a rough start since we lost our top five runners from last year, but we’ve recovered with the help of some of the new runners. Some runners in specific would be Tiffany Tang, Izzy Alvarez-Martinez, Maya Tang [’23], and Ava Sullivan. They’ve been performing so well this season, and I think that they also show a lot of promise for a strong team in years forwards.” 
In preparation for its first home meet of the season, the team will study and train on the Andover course during practice, according to Kate Pfister ’21.


“Since our next race is home, we’ll probably spend a lot of this week focusing on our own course and how to run it. Our team in general made a breakthrough this week with some of our fastest times of the season, and we had some injured runners getting back into racing again which was great,” wrote Pfister in an email to The Phillipian.
The team will race Northfield Mount Hermon at home this Saturday.
Editor’s Note: Tessa Conrardy is President of The Phillipian.
EOFCXLII




Transcriptions:
Ava Sullivan, Email:
1. The team did great! Andover girls won both varsity and jv(with jv coming in with a perfect score!)
2. My meet went ok, I didn’t feel my best and definitely went out to hard which I paid for later. I came in 13th overall and my time was 22:25.
3. I am super proud of the team for this race. We had a great pack up front and many other packs throughout the race which we have been working on a lot in practice. Also, some of our teammates were racing for the first time this season which is really exciting! Everyone did amazing and really left everything out on the coarse this afternoon.
4. I think the team is getting stronger and stronger each race. Our packs are shaving off lots of seconds in their paces and the overall outcome of our races have been getting more impressive and exciting each time!
5. The Saint Paul’s coarse is almost completely flat, with a couple “wake up hills” here and there and lots of winding, whereas Andover has more significant up hills and downhills, especially during the second mile. However both courses were a mix of woods and open fields, which provided similarity, and the beautiful fall foliage also reminded us of our home coarse.
6. The team proved to be stronger than Saint Paul’s, and 15/20 of our girls were in the top 20 which was awesome.
7. I would say a key takeaway from this meet is in adjusting to the change of speed when it comes to a flat coarse like this one. During the races we have had this season, there have been at least 2 significant uphills which require a slight pace change, but also some long and/or steep downhills which help with speeding up. At Saint Paul’s, the coarse didn’t have much of this change in elevation which called for a different type of racing strategy and pace compared to what i had been used to.
8. The team will be continuing with our usual mix of workouts, tempos, and recovery runs to prepare for the upcoming race. We will keep on working on our pack running as well which will he needed in order to succeed in the rest of our races.
9. Natasha Muromcew’23 and Izzy Alvarez’23 went 1-2 in today’s meet which was great. The two of them stayed strong and up front through the whole race. Also, Captain Posie Millet’20, who had just come back from an injury, had a really strong race.
Natasha Muromcew, Email:
Hi Justin,
The meet went great! The varsity team won 16-46. Our first four runners, me, Izzy Alvarez-Martinez'23, Tiffany Tang'22, and Tessa Conrardy'20, finished in front of St. Paul's first girls which was really amazing in terms of our overall score. The JV team also won, 15-50, amazing because it's a perfect score, meaning all seven of our JV runners were in front of St. Paul's first JV runner. Something notable is that our first five girls had an average time of 21:09 and we were all within one minute of each other. I think that the team performed great, we had expected to win and we did, but by a larger margin than expected. One thing that helped is our pack running. We've really hit a spot in which we can all race together or near each other and that helps us push ourselves and each other further than we might expect. In terms of the overall season, I think that we've had a little bit of a rough start since we lost our top five runners from last year but we've recovered with the help of some of the new runners. Some runners in specific would be Tiffany Tang, Izzy Alvarez-Martinez, Maya Tang, and Ava Sullivan, they've been performing so well this season and I think that they also show a lot of promise for a strong team in years forwards since they're freshmen/lowers and it opens up the possibility of winning the Championship race in one or two
years. I think that the St. Paul's course is similar in concept to the Andover course, it starts and ends on a field with some forest and moderate hills in the middle. The main difference I noticed is that Andover's hills have a higher intensity, meaning more quantity, length, and steepness. A key takeaway would be our pack running mentioned above because that's what separates a team from a group of individuals and teams are always faster. The team will be preparing for the next meet by training on our home course. Since the race is at home, it's great to train on the course to become familiar with the hills and to know which spots you might struggle on to mentally prepare. Attached is a photo of the times and scores if you want some more to reference.
Rebecca Hession, Email:
Hi Justin,
Both varsity and jv won today’s dual meet at St. Paul’s. Varsity won 16-46; JV won 15-50. Highlights include 1-4 sweep in varsity race and 1-7 sweep (perfect score) in the JV race.
V Place Finish
Natasha Muromcew 1 0:20:41
Izzy Alvarez Martinez 2 0:20:57
Tiffany Tang 3 0:21:08
Tessa Conrardy 4 0:21:24
Claire de Saint Phalle 6 0:21:39
Maya Tang 7 0:21:43
Amelia Vinton 9 0:22:04
JV Race
Abby Ryan JV Place 1 0:22:08
Posie Millett 2 0:22:15
Ava Sullivan 3 0:22:25
Gwen Robinson 4 0:22:32
Ashley Song 5 0:22:53
Caroline Empey 6 0:23:28
Carolina Weatherall 7 0:23:40
Kate Pfister, Email:
Hi! Ok so we won with a perfect score for jv (15-50) and an almost perfect score for varsity (16-46) our top runner Natasha Muromcew ran a 20:41 which is super fast. It was a super flat couse, the weather was perfect fall weather a bit chilly which is good for running. I think their course is easier than andover’s just because it’s flatter, but since our team is pretty good at hilly courses, I think we will do well on our home course next weekend! We’ve been having a great season, we have a strong pack of fast runners, including a lot of freshman! Since our next race is home well probably spend a lot of this week focusing on our own course and how to run it. Our team in general made a breakthrough this week with some of our fastest times of the season, and we had some injured runners (including our captain posie millet) getting back into racing again which was great! Hope this is helpful, let me know if there’s anything you would like to know!