Student Council Launches Hurricane Dorian Relief Initiative for the Bahamas
by Sophia Lee


BOFCXLII
At the beginning of September, Hurricane Dorian swept through the Bahamas, leaving a trail of death and destruction in its wake. Over a thousand people were reported missing, and the reported death toll climbed to 50 as of September 15, according to a report done by the United Nations (UN) Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (O.C.H.A.). 
Most affected by the hurricane was the Great Abaco Island, where the nonprofit organization Light and Hope will send resources and supplies. Founded by Salvador Gómez-Colón ’21, Light and Hope was initially created to provide relief for Puerto Rico after the devastating effects of Hurricane Maria in 2017. 
Gómez-Colón, an Upper class representative, has partnered Light and Hope with Student Council to run a fundraising initiative focused on raising money to purchase supplies that would then be sent to the archipelago. Gómez-Colón explained how he hopes to replicate the model of Light and Hope that originally worked in Puerto Rico.
“Light and Hope was an initiative that I started in Puerto Rico… the model was that I'd raise money to purchase and distribute solar lamps and hand powered washing machines to the most affected communities around the island. So later on for Puerto Rico, [we] ended up raising over $170,000. We distributed...4,100 lamps to over 3,500 households,” said Gómez-Colón. 
“I knew that [lamps and washing machines were] necessary, but that big organizations were not going to be focusing on [them]. So they're going to be focusing on food, on water, on shelters, right? And I want to do something that I knew that I could, as a 15 year old, that I could pull through, but also that was that was touching, was important, was needed,” continued Gómez-Colón.
Dr. Nikki R. Cleare P’19, Instructor in Mathematics, Statistics, & Computer Science, is from and has family living in the Bahamas, some of whom were directly affected by the hurricane. While all of her family members were unharmed, Cleare described how the water surges that have been destroying homes and property put several of her own family members’ lives in danger. 
“​Thankfully, all of my family are safe. One of my cousins who lived in Freeport lost her home and, because the hospital in Freeport was destroyed by the 20 ft water surges, she had to be airlifted to Nassau by helicopter for an emergency surgery that she needed. My other cousins who live in Freeport lost their family business, and my family in Abaco have relocated to one of our southern islands, Inagua, to live with family there,” wrote Cleare in an email to The Phillipian.
However, Cleare also explained how some others were affected by the hurricane more severely. 
“Some of my friends were not as fortunate though and tell stories of little children watching their grandparents get washed away by the 20ft water surges as they clung to their parents for more than 36 hours waiting for the storm to end and help to arrive,” wrote Cleare. 


The Bahamas’ relief initiative was announced last Friday at All-School Meeting (ASM) by Co-Presidents Shahinda Bahnasy ’20 and Sebastian Romero ’20. 
Romero explained how the fundraising effort at Andover was somewhat inspired by a campaign that also focused on Hurricane Maria relief that he ran two years ago. The previously-existing infrastructure that he had established coupled with Gómez-Colón’s nonprofit presented itself as a solution for real, tangible change. 
“So I ran a campaign similar to this when I was a Lower. And we actually did the same thing with Mr. Palfrey and Ms. Elliot. So I reached out to them back then and we organized it. But now with the platform that I had, and actually Salvador, who actually has this nonprofit running and that he actually did the same recuperation efforts but back in Puerto Rico. He took the same platform and I took what I had. And what we did was using Student Council, we met with Mr. Ventre and Ms. Elliot. And using that, we quickly got to converse, they quickly got on board and they were more than enthusiastic to join us,” said Romero.
While Romero’s initiative lower year involved pieing former Head of School John Palfrey P’21, ’23 and Jennifer Elliott ’94, P’22, Assistant Head of School for Residential Life and Dean of Students, the Light and Hope for the Bahamas fundraiser is seeking different approaches. It will sell bracelets for the whole of this upcoming week in Paresky Commons to raise awareness and donations. 
Cleare emphasized her appreciation for the immediate reactions of care and concern that she received from the Andover community, noting the importance of reaching out to others and of selflessness, especially in times of crisis and need. Cleare recognized how the efforts of Bahnasy, Romero, and Gómez-Colón were concrete ways of showing that kind of selflessness and empathy.
“​In the days during and since the hurricane, several of my close colleagues and some of the students I have taught at Andover have reached out to me to share their concern and support.  Just knowing others care makes a difference — so please don't forget to always take time for each other. That was part of the message Keely Aouga ’18, one of last year's Co-Presidents, shared in her commencement address: Taking time to care for each other is important!” wrote Cleare. 
Cleare continued, “I certainly appreciated when Shahinda, whom I taught two years ago, found me during the opening days of school to ask how I was doing and share her concern about the hurricane that, at the time, was still sitting over the Bahamas.  She found me again a few days later to tell me about the fundraiser that Salvador, who is from Puerto Rico, was organizing.  Although I am not aware of any Bahamian students at Andover at this time, there are lots of students like Salvador who know the lasting impact of a hurricane. Your support for the relief effort is a tangible way of showing that you care.”
Gómez-Colón emphasized that fundraising for the Bahamas was especially important due to what he saw as a considerable difference in media coverage between Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas versus Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. Because of that lack of media coverage and lack of visibility, Gómez-Colón expressed how he felt it was crucial that the desperate need in the Bahamas be recognized. 
“In Puerto Rico, we have so many political tensions with the United States in laws and all that, so it's a hot topic …. Whereas for the Bahamas, the sad thing is that the narrative is ‘just another natural disaster in just another Caribbean island or archipelago,’ right? So it's not really isolated, it's not being identified, and the need isn’t being recognized as much as it should be,” said Gómez-Colón. 
Echoing Cleare’s point, the Light and Hope fundraiser is a testament of how a student-led initiative can mobilize the entire community, according to Leila Hardy ’22. 
“I think this initiative is particularly great because it's helping real people who need this aid money, but I think in any situation where an Andover student needs help and the community is able to rally together in a way like this to support them, I think that's always wonderful and always strengthens our community,” said Hardy. 
Editor’s Note: Shahinda Bahnasy is a Photo Editor for The Phillipian.


EOFCXLII
________________


Leila Hardy ’22
I think this initiative's definitely really helpful and really good for both, obviously the Bahamas who will be receiving this aid money, but also for our community. I feel like one of the things that makes Andover such a unique place and such an amazing support system for us is that we can rely on each other to be supportive for projects and initiatives that we might want to pursue. And so I think this initiative is particularly great because it's helping real people who need this aid money, but I think in any situation where an Andover student needs help and the community is able to rally together in a way like this to support them, I think that's always wonderful and always strengthens our community.


Nikki Cleare, Instructor in Mathematics, 
1) How do you feel about the Light and Hope initiative in general?


​My understanding is that the Light and Hope initiative was first founded to provide help to Puerto Rico when Hurricane Maria caused devastation on that island and several other Caribbean islands.  This year, my country experienced a similar devastation, a devastation unlike anything in the history of our nation and we are extremely grateful to all the various organizations that have reached out to help us in our time of need.   We are a small island nation -- of approximately 400,000 people.  The majority live in Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas, which was fortunately spared the devastation of Hurricane Dorian.  However, our next two most populous islands were Grand Bahama (home to Freeport -- our 2nd "city") and Abaco (home to Marsh Harbour -- our 3rd "city") and they were devastated.  Marsh Harbour no longer exists -- literally!


2) If you feel comfortable sharing, how have you and your family been affected by the hurricane?


​Thankfully, all of my family are safe.  One of my cousins who lived in Freeport lost her home and, because the hospital in Freeport was destroyed by the 20 ft water surges, she had to be airlifted to Nassau by helicopter for an emergency surgery that she needed.   My other cousins who live in Freeport lost their family business, and my family in Abaco have relocated to one of our southern islands, Inagua, to live with family there.  Some of my friends were not as fortunate though and tell stories of little children watching their grandparents get washed away by the 20 ft water surges as they clung to their parents for more than 36 hours waiting for the storm to end and help to arrive.


3) How do you feel/do you feel both the disaster and the relief effort impacts the Andover community, in any capacity?


​In the days during and since the hurricane, several of my close colleagues and some of the students I have taught at Andover have reached out to me to share their concern and support.  Just knowing others care makes a difference -- so please don't forget to always take time for each other.  That was part of the message Keely Agouga, one of last year's co-presidents, shared in her commencement address:  Taking time to care for each other is important!   I certainly appreciated when Shahinda, whom I taught two years ago, found me during the opening days of school to ask how I was doing and share her concern about the hurricane that, at the time, was still sitting over the Bahamas.  She found me again a few days later to tell me about the fundraiser that Salvador, who is from Puerto Rico, was organizing.  Although I am not aware of any Bahamian students at Andover at this time, there are lots of students like Salvador who know the lasting impact of a hurricane.  Your support for the relief effort is a tangible way of showing that you care. 


Salvador Gómez-Colón ’21
https://www.gofundme.com/f/light-and-hope-for-the-bahamas?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=p_cp+share-sheet
Sal: Okay, so light and hope was an initiative that I started in Puerto Rico. So it was called Light and Hope for Puerto Rico, which is after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico. So the model was that I'd raise money to purchase and distribute solar lamps and hand powered washing machines to the most affected communities around the island. So later on for Puerto Rico, ended up raising over $170,000. We distributed over 3,500 lamps, 1,100 washing machines to a bit over 3,000 households. Actually, no. It was 4,100 lamps to over 3,500 households. Right. So that was the effect of Light and Hope for Puerto Rico. Basically the model is–one of the reasons why I decided on lamps and washing machines is because lamps, you know, I wanted to do this. After Maria, I want to do something different that I knew that was necessary, but that big organizations were not going to be focusing on. So they're going to be focusing on food, on water, on shelters, right? And I want to do something that I knew that I could, as a 15 year old that I could pull through but also that was that was touching, was important, was needed. So that's how I got to that thought.  


So I'm really grateful that student council is partnering with me and Light and Hope for the Bahamas, an initiative which is basically doing the same thing as Light and Hope for Puerto Rico. But this time, we're going to aid at least 300 families in the island of Great Abaco. So it's distributing solar lamps and hand-powered washing machines. The good thing is that student council is going to backing me so we're gonna– you actually may have questions about that.  


Yeah, so basically the crowdfunding, actually, I had started – I got the idea. So my birthday was September 2nd. So it was my birthday. And during my birthday, I was reading about other Bahamas things and it was a rainy day. And we had plans and all that but it was raining so I was like, I don't want to go outside. And I don't want to walk in the rain. I just, you know hung out in my room for a while. And I was thinking I was like, what does this mean for the Bahamas?  Because I read the headlines, that you know, the Bahamas was completely destroyed. And I assume you can find all the facts later, but it's thousands of people displaced, thousand people dead? If we thought that Maria was bad for Puerto Rico, Dorian has been 10 times worse for the Bahamas, right? And it's a matter of fact, right? It's not a simple conjecture that I've just made up here. I realized that that the Bahamas – there is definitely an inherent need, but the problem with the Bahamas is that the press isn't going to be covering it as much, people aren't going to be as noticing. Because it's not the same case as Puerto Rico. In Puerto Rico, we have so many political tensions with the United States in laws and all that. So it's a hot topic, because there's so many issues that kind of relate to that. Whereas for the Bahamas, it's just – the sad thing is that the narrative is "Just another natural disaster in just another Caribbean island, or archipelago", right? So it's not really isolated, it's not being identified and the need isn’t being recognized as much as it should be.  


To raise money, I started my crowdfunding externally with my 501c3 and all that and put the GoFundMe link up for the crowdfunding, but I wanted to find a way to involve the school, to involve Andover in any way possible. So I met with Miss Elliott, a few weeks ago, and basically I was like, you know, this is my idea. This is my initiative for the Bahamas. What can we do to help?  How can we involve the school so the school can get active? And then basically, she's like, we can definitely do an all school fundraiser. And actually it's not going to be a pie in the face, that has been confirmed not to, but that has been the preliminary thing that that Sebastian and Shahinda were thinking of, could be possible, but it's no longer possible. That's scrapped. But basically what we're going to end up doing, which I can confirm with you tonight when I meet with student council again, and by Thursday before this article, basically we're going to host you know, do all school fundraiser for a whole week, we're going to be raising donations to help the mission of Light and Hope for the Bahamas.   




The role of student council here is the fact that I would have had to create an organization with Mr. Capano to get the blue card readers and check them out and all that, but because Student Council has been so willing to endorse this, basically, we can just use their their blue card account. Student Council's. Which was great, because at first I first I thought, you know, like trying to involve Student Council was kind of weird, because I am a class rep. And I was like, maybe it's kind of weird. But the vote was unanimous. You know, the whole student council was on board of helping Light and Hope for the Bahamas and helping the people with the Bahamas, which is great. And Miss Dolan was super on board as well. So I'm very excited about  her willingness to help in this. So the whole plan is, basically, when we've raising funds for a week. Bluecard readers, cash, and we're going to have bracelets. And Light and Hope for the Bahamas, and they're really cute bracelets. They say: Light and Hope, and the O's the flag of the Bahamas, which is super cute. We're gonna be selling those in Commons. So for a minimum donation of $5, we are selling the bracelets in commons for a whole week. And then after, and this is yet to be confirmed, but the cluster that raises most funds per capita gets a special cluster much, which might may or may not be McDonald's so far. But we still have to decide that. But basically, what we're going to do is something so the cluster that raises the most funds gets a special munch. 


Sebastian Romero ’20
So the initiative that we're doing is a fundraiser for the Bahamas. So, as you know, Hurricane Dorian, hit the Bahamas couple weeks ago, and about half the island is actually displaced, they're homeless. And we actually have the opportunity to do something big here. So platform that we want to do with student council is, we want to fundraise for the Bahamas by actually selling tickets for a raffle in which you're going to be able to get to pie Mr. Ventre or Ms. Elliott. So tickets are going to be sold for 1 for $3 or 2 for $5. So that money is going to be going towards Light for Hope, which is a not for profit run by Salvador Gomez ['21], who's in the class of 21.


So I ran a campaign similar to this when I was a Lower. And we actually did the same thing with Mr. Palfrey and Ms. Elliot. So I reached out to them back then and we organized it. But now with the platform that I had, and actually Salvador, who actually has this nonprofit running and that he actually did the same recuperation efforts but back in Puerto Rico. He took the same platform and I took what I had. And what we did was using Student Council, we met with this Mr Ventre and Miss Elliot. And using that, we quickly got to converse, they quickly got on board and they were more than enthusiastic to join us. So through that, the quick conversation, we got to talking to Mr. Capano, getting the ASM time to say and make the announcement, as well as for the Flagstaff courtyard, to book that for after the ASM on September two Fridays from now.


So honestly, I think it sets an example, because I don't know if, in my time here, of another co presidential pair who has done a fundraising effort or anything like that. So I just feel it sets the tone for future co presidential paris to know that they can do things that are outside of the box and that they can, we have a student council or do fundraising events that they want to or anything else. So yeah, it's just, set the ceiling high and reach it. 


So the money actually is going for solar powered washing machines, as well as lights and batteries that are going to be distributed throughout the island and down in the Bahamas. So the not for  profit is actually a 501(c)(c)3. It's called Light for Hope. He's the CEO of it, he runs it. But what it does is it has people down in the Bahamas who were first responders, essentially, and we're going to be sending supplies through planes and everything down there directly to them.