PAFH Wins One and Loses One in Two Hard-Fought Games
BOFCXLII
Tipping in a shot from Captain Carly Kreytak ’20, Anna Bargman ’21 scored Andover Field Hockey’s first and only goal against St. Paul’s. Bargman’s goal in the second half drove Andover to a 1-0 win last Saturday.
According to Kreytak and Head Coach Kate Dolan, although the game was low-scoring, Andover was able to control the flow of the game in both halves.
Kreytak said, “I think that we did a good job keeping them in their zone. We were very close to scoring so many times… I think that it was a challenging game overall.”
Coach Dolan added in an email to The Phillipian, “We dominated in terms of possession in our offensive half of the field.”
Even though the team maintained a four-game winning streak, the team still believes it has room for improvement, according to Kreytak.
Kreytak said, “I think we have a lot more potential. Actually, our game last Tuesday against Milton Academy was really good, it was a good showing of how hard we are able to work and how much we want to win… But at St. Paul’s, I think that it was almost like a lull in our season, because even though we won, we definitely could have beaten them by a lot more. We just need to focus on being intentional in what we are doing and being hungrier to win.”
“We can continue to improve, particularly with our communication, our ability to finish plays within our offensive 25, and passing the ball with greater consistency and strength,” added Dolan.
Andover also visited Middlesex on Wednesday for a 1-0 loss, putting its current record at 8-2. According to Kiera Suh ’22, despite the close score, the team wasn’t able to make the necessary plays.
“After this game, we’re realizing the importance of finishing, as well as the importance of playing as a team. Our midfield set up many crisp plays or passes into the circle that we weren’t quite able to put away. We also started to get quiet at the end of the first half which created a bit of confusion and discombobulation across the field,” said Suh. “We’re still trying to get our team chemistry right in order to define this year’s team. There’s a lot of small controllable things that we still aren’t doing consistently such as calling people off the ball or running hard into loose balls.”
Andover looks to regain its winning streak against Northfield Mount Hermon at home this Saturday.
EOFCXLII
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Transcriptions:
Coach Dolan (email)
We can continue to improve, particularly with our communication, our ability to finish plays within our offensive 25, and passing the ball with greater consistency and strength.
We dominated in terms of possession in our offensive half of the field.
It was a team effort.
We hope to continue to improve each time we practice and compete so we can maximize and combine the talents, skills, and contributions of every team member.


Captain Carly Kreytak ’20
No, we are not playing at our best. I think we have a lot more potential. Actually, our game last Tuesday against Milton Academy was really good, it was a good showing of how hard we are able to work and how much we want to win. We won in overtime and it was a super close game, they were very skilled. But at St. Paul’s, I think that it was almost like a lull in our season, because even though we won, we definitely could have beaten them by a lot more. We just need to focus on being intentional in what we are doing and being hungrier to win.
I think Olivia O’Brien ’20, who is a PG, she’s normally a forward but she played midfield in our game and I think she really did a good job, she’s definitely one of our key players. Same with Ellie Harrison ’22, she plays center midfield, but we switched around a little in the game, but they are both very skilled, and I think they did a good job. Same with our goalie, who didn’t really have any shots in the game, but in general she’s like …
I think that we did a good job keeping them in their zone. We were very close to scoring so many times. We only scored one when like I shot it and Anna Bargman ’21 tipped it into the net which was key in our win since we weren’t able to put the ball in the net again. I think that it was a challenging game overall.
We are still trying to find our team identity and so, I feel like that’s part of it. So, we just need to focus on what gets us going and especially as the season goes on, we play tougher teams.


Kiera Suh ’22 (text)
Linda Bibeau, Rose O’Connor, and Carly Kreytak both played excellent games. The score was 1-0, but Middlesex could have beat us by much more if they hadn’t handled our defensive end so skillfully. Rose’s drives into our offensive circle set up so many opportunities for our forwards, but we had a really tough time finishing plays. Carly’s stick skills and maneuvers around the midfield also created several crucial plays. Linda is always very consistent, but today especially, her transfers and general passing game got us moving towards goal.
After this game, we’re realizing the importance of finishing, as well as the importance of playing as a team.  Our midfield set up many crisp plays or passes into the circle that we weren’t quite able to put away.  We also started to get really quiet at the end of the first half which created a bit of confusion and discombobulation across the field.
We’re still trying to get our team chemistry right in order to define this year’s team. There’s a lot of small controllable things that we still aren’t doing consistently such as calling people off the ball or running hard into loose balls.