Girls Cross Country Places Fourth in Bobcat Invitational
By Sarah Karlen
BOFCXLII
This past Sunday, Andover Girls Cross Country traveled to Lee, N.H., to compete in its first meet of the season at Oyster River’s Bobcat Invitational. Andover placed fourth out of 12 teams with a total time of 1:53:37, approximately five minutes after first place Phillips Exeter Academy.
According to Captain Posie Millett ’20 and Natasha Muromcew ’22, Andover prepared for the meet by training in packs—a method employed by the team in order to push each other forward during practice.
Millett said, “One of the things we talked about a lot this week was distributing the effort, and so when you run with your pack and other teammates, if there is someone who’s particularly apt at running hills, you let that person take it and your job is to hold on to them. When we have our pack mentality it really helps to get up the hill.” 
Muromcew said, “Pack running is definitely a goal and we work on it during training. I think it worked really well, I was pack running with [Claire De Saint Phalle ’21] and [Tessa Conrardy ’20] and then Posie and [Tiffany Tang ’22] together, and since we were all fairly closer together, we were able to move ahead as a group from the other teams.”  
One challenging aspect of the course was its hilly and rocky terrain, according to Tang and Muromcew.
Tang said, “The course was kind of rough, and I think it was a lot hillier than what any of us are used to. It was also pretty hot out that day, and I think that along with all the hills definitely slowed us down a little. The times overall weren’t super fast because of how hard the course was.”
Muromcew added, “We were running on dirt roads with rocks and that was tricky for some people, especially me because I had spikes.”
Despite the humid weather conditions, the team managed to keep its energy high by staying hydrated, according to Millett.
“It was tough because it was cold in our training for September, we hadn’t run yet in a day that was so humid. We had a big emphasis on hydration. We had a lot of people feeling dehydrated and dizzy, but overall making sure everyone stayed healthy and comfortable and only using however much effort they had,” said Millett. 
According to Millett, the team enjoyed running through an apple orchard, a change in scenery from its usual campus course. 
Millett continued, “Running off campus in a place where it was public terrain was really fun. After their were families picking apples and it was really cute. It was a nice change of scenery.”
Andover will compete in the Northfield Mount Hermon Invitational this Saturday. 
Editor’s Note: Tessa Conrardy is the President of The Phillipian.
EOFCXLII
























































Transcripts:


Natasha: As a team, there really is no pressure since it’s our first race. So our main goal was to go in and have a good time and do our best. The course was really hard and it was hot and sunny, we knew it wouldn’t be our best times. 


Pack running is definitely a goal and we work on it during training, I think it worked really well, I was pack running with Claire and Tessa and then Posie and Tiffany together, and since we were all fairly closer together, we were able to move ahead as a group from the other teams. 


For me, the hills make the course more interesting because they are challenging, but they don’t give the best time result.s For some of the hills, they were in exposed sunlight and that was really hard for me to get over them, so I would just remind myself that everyone has to do the hill and go through the heat, so you just have to do your best to get through it. There’s also always a downhill to an uphill. 


It was hotter than its been in the past two heats, but I wasn’t worried about the heat going into the race so even though it was hot it didn’t affect me. 


It was fun to have new scenery, really pretty, really great course. We were running on dirt roads with rocks and that was tricky for some people, especially me because I had spikes, but overall still a very fun experience. 


Posie: We did a bit of hill work in the sanctuary, but because it was closed during the preseason, we didn’t get the training we usually do. One of the things we talked about a lot this week was distributing the effort, and so when you run with your pack and other teammates if there is someone who’s particularly apt at running hills you let that person take it and your job is to hold on to them. When we have our pack mentality it really helps to get up the hill. 


It was tough because it was cold in our training for September, we hadn’t run yet in a day that was so humid. We had a big emphasis on hydration, we had a lot of people feeling dehydrated and dizzy. But I think overall on making sure everyone stayed healthy and comfortable and only using however much effort they had. 


We have a couple people were injured and a fairly new team, and so just thinking about how we are going to formulate new packs and work together to improve this season is going to be important. In regards to Exeter, they performed really well yesterday, but coming up on the season, they are going to be a big source of competition for us. 


It was really fun, it wasn’t at a school where we normally have our races. So it was a bigger invitational meet, so the start was very much more crowded compared to our dual meets. So that was a change, but running off a campus in a place where it was public terrain was really fun. And after their were families picking apples and it was really cute. It was a nice change of scenery. 


We have our NMH this week, which is where intorschols is this year, so it’s like a sneak peak. Because our training was a little off this week because of the Sunday meeting, we are going to have to work on our mileage. On Wednesday we are going to do this workout that focuses more on hills because NMH has a course with a lot of rolling hills and the Bobcat Invitational prepared us a lot for this course because of its hills. 




Tiffany: The course was kinda rough and I think it was a lot hillier than what any of us are used to. It was also pretty hot out that day and I think that along with all the hills definitely slowed us down a little. The times overall weren’t super fast bc of how hard the course was. I’m a little more used to the heat bc I’m from Texas so that didn’t bother me as much, but the hills were hard. I think I mainly just focused on shortening my stride uphills and taking advantage of the downhills that usually come right after.


It was a really cool experience running in an apple orchard and passing by all the apple trees. It was kinda disappointing though because we weren’t allowed to pick or eat any of the apples there. I think we’re gonna keep working on hills for NMH bc it’s also pretty hilly. It’s only the start of season so we’re still building up to it