Andover Embraces Theme of “Justice” For the 2019-2020 School Year
Sophia Hlavaty


BOFCXLII
Citizenship and Gratitude. Those are just a handful of themes the Andover faculty has chosen in the past to set the tone for the new year. These themes are selected to reinforce a specific message that will guide classes, All-School Meeting, and other pursuits, in hopes of cultivating school spirit and guiding year-specific objectives. The theme chosen for the 2019-20 academic year is justice. 
Jennifer Elliott ’94, Assistant Head of School for Residential Life and Dean of Students, said, “Justice is important. I hope we spend time thinking about how and where justice is served, how and where do we have just aspects of our society, how and where is there injustice— and what is our obligation and our responsibility as members of a global society to address injustices and figure out ways of bringing about more just communities?”
Under the leadership of Former Head of School John Palfrey, Andover inaugurated the practice of selecting yearly themes to encourage unity and renewed engagement with timely values that reconnect the school with the world. To choose the theme, faculty members are surveyed yearly, asking for their opinion about possible theme options. The topics, which tend to be relatively general, invite people to use whatever resources they see fit to find meaning that is personally relevant to their situation, according to Elliott. 
Elliott said,  “I think we see it as an opportunity to dig-in in classes and invite faculty members in their own courses to be thinking about how justice is a theme that might touch upon the content that they are covering. I think that in terms of our All-School meeting gatherings, I can imagine justice being something that we emphasize particularly… I think we try to be as comprehensive and creative as we can in terms of how we can touch upon that theme.”
According to Elliott, by emphasizing the importance of justice, the faculty hopes that students will recognize how to work towards building and maintaining a fair community. This could be in a dorm space, classroom, affinity group, sports team, performance group, community engagement program, or club. 
Izzy Torio ’21 said, “I think that justice is an interesting topic to choose because I feel like everyone has their own definition of justice, so justice is something that we are seeking to define. I believe that it is something that we continue to question and change our opinions and minds about. I think that in exploring justice this year, we are committing ourselves to an ongoing search for our own identity and values.” 
The Office of the Head of School often works in conjunction with faculty from the Oliver Wendell Holmes Library to plan campus programming concerning how best to organize events that further develop the discussions about the theme. The OWHL strives to supplement the academic-based initiatives of the theme with social events that invigorate student participation. 
“We've started a little Climate Cafe which is focused on environmental justice. So we will bring in speakers who try to illuminate the impacts of climate change on people all over the world in different ways, and how that creates injustices across the spectrum,” said Michael J. Barker, Director of the OWHL. 
Barker continued, “I'm also very interested to see if we can bring any speakers who can talk about justice from a technological angle. The algorithms that control our lives or at least decrease the autonomy we have when we interact with technology and phones. I find that to be a symptom of injustice and [I would] love to see us bring some speakers to campus that can talk a little about that. I think the Tang Institute might be doing something like that.” 
Eliza Dow ’22 remarked on the timeliness of the theme and how it is important to have a school-led campaign to remember certain traditional values that are contributing to international affairs and the dynamics of the world outside of Andover. 
“I think justice is important for the school, especially for this year because Andover needs to cultivate an environment where justice is a priority, especially with the growing problems going on in the world today, [such as] the election [that’s] coming up and all the environmental issues and all of the gun violence issues. Justice is becoming a very relevant topic in the world,” said Dow.  
While Elliott supports the school theme as a sort of guidance, she emphasized how its main function was to be just that—interpretable. The broadness of the annual theme is intentional, meant to inspire students to think about their classes and general Andover experiences in a different light. 
“I think it’s something that, as the school focuses on the theme, we will invite kids more and more often to think about how this connects to the reading they're doing, the writing they're doing, the conversations they're having, perhaps the club work they're doing in terms of driving initiatives there. I think this is an opportunity as a community to think about how and where,” said Elliott.
Elliott continued, “I think the school theme was always an invitation. It's never a mandate. It's never meant to put bounds or to cap or to limit in any way. We are moving in lots of different directions and exploring various tangents. It could be a potential way to draw connections. I think that's the point of it. It's not meant to be a limiting factor in any way but perhaps a galvanizing one.” 
EOFCXLII


























Interview One: Michael Barker, director of the Oliver Wendell Holmes Library
Q: How does Andover plan on incorporating the theme of justice in campus programming? 
A: I'm really excited for the way the theme of justice will be investigated across campus with different programs. I'm particularly excited about CAMD's work with... We've started a little Climate Cafe which is focused on environmental justice. So we will bring in speakers who try to illuminate the impacts of climate change on people all over the world in different ways, and how that creates injustices across the spectrum. I'm also very interested to see if we can bring any speakers who can talk about justice from a technological angle. The algorithms that control our lives or at least decrease the autonomy we have when we interact with technology and phones. I find that to be a symptom of injustice and [I would] love to see us bring some speakers to campus that can talk a little about that. I think the Tang Institute might be doing something like that. 


Interview Two: Izzy Torio ’21
Q: Why do you think Andover chose the theme of justice for the 2019-2020 school year?
A: I think that justice is an interesting topic to choose because I feel like everyone has their own definition of justice, so justice is something that we are seeking to define. I believe that it is something that we continue to question and change our opinions and minds about. I think that in exploring justice this year, we are committing ourselves to an ongoing search for our own identity and values. 


Q: So on campus, there are a lot of groups that in their own way attempt to spark conversation about various forms of social justice. These include affinity groups, environment oriented clubs etc. What is your opinion about the way that Andover students approach justice? 
A: I have a very positive outlook on the way that students here at PA approach justice. I think that each group and each student will approach this question very differently based on what's influencing them, what's important to their club, their affinity group. I think we can really make some productive conversation on this campus with all this diversity of ideas. 


Interview Three: Eliza Dow ’22
Q: Why do you think Andover chose the theme of justice for the 2019-2020 school year? 
I think justice is important for the school, especially for this year because Andover needs to cultivate an environment where justice is a priority, especially with the growing problems going on in the world today, [such as] the election [that’s] coming up and all the environmental issues and all of the gun violence issues. Justice is becoming a very relevant topic in the world.  


Interview Four: Jennifer Elliott ’94, Assistant Head of School for Residential Life and Dean of Students 
Q: Why did Andover choose the theme of justice for the 2019-2020 school year?
A: Each year we spend some time brainstorming potential topics. We allow time for there to be some conversation, and then we actually collected feedback by way of survey for folks to weigh in on sort of the top selections. I think that justice has been a theme that's been floated for some time now. We wanted to be responsive to the community's feedback so that's ultimately why justice was selected. I think part of the appeal that I understood it to be and the conversations I was in had to do with the really rich ways that we could interrogate or explore and look into justice and sort of all different types of aspects of it. 


Q: Who participated in the survey?
A: So adults, typically. I think we also posted it. I believe it was posted in the Gazette, which is distributed to adults. I think it was also floated to various student groups in terms of just their feedback too. But the students were not officially polled.


Q: When was the survey conducted?
A: I can't remember. Last year at some point.


Q: How do you plan on incorporating the theme of justice in campus programming?
A: I think that every year that we've focused on a particular theme we've looked to guest speakers, in terms of content that they might draw upon, or look into, or interrogate. I think that already there was a whole cohort of folks who were looking at food justice last year. This felt like it was persuing and carrying on the work that was done last year. I think we see it as an opportunity to dig-in in classes and invite faculty members in their own courses to be thinking about how justice is a theme that might touch upon the content that they are covering. I think that in terms of our All-School meeting gatherings, I can imagine justice being something that we emphasize particularly. Also, authors that come through the OWHL. I think we try to be as comprehensive and creative as we can in terms of how we can touch upon that theme.


Q: How can students apply the theme of justice in their day to day lives?
A: I think its something that as the school focuses on the theme we will invite kids more and more often to think about how this connects to the reading they're doing, the writing they're doing, the conversations they're having, perhaps the club work they're doing in terms of driving initiatives there. I think this is an opportunity as a community to think about how and where. And of course there's going to be intersections with other themes that we have in the past, and perhaps it will end up driving how we focus our efforts and thinking next year.


Q: Once a school chooses a particular theme, are the teachers encouraged to somehow incorporate their theme through their lessons?
A: I think the school theme was always an invitation. It's never a mandate. It's never meant to put bounds or to cap or to limit in any way. We are moving in lots of different directions and exploring various tangents. It could be a potential way to draw connections. I think that's the point of it. It's not meant to be a limiting factor in any way but perhaps a galvanizing one.


Q: How did these themes start? 
A: It started a couple of years ago. I think part of it was Mr. Palfrey's instincts in terms of All-School Meeting in particular feeling like if that's the school's biggest classroom then that's an opportunity to say like is there's something we can align or we can draw our attention to as a community that's unifying. Obviously all of these themes are broad and invite lots of different possibilities and opportunities.


Q: So Mr. Palfrey started them?
A: Under Mr. Palfrey's leadership we started thinking about themes. 


Q: Why is justice important for our lives at Andover and outside?
A: Justice is important. I hope we spend time thinking about how and where is justice served, how and where do we have just aspects of our society, how and where is there injustice and what is our obligation and our responsibility as members of a global society to address injustices and figure out ways of bringing about more just communities.