Andover Ends Winning Streak After Loss to Suffield
BOFCXLII
In a game where neither team led by more than two goals at any given moment, Andover Boys Water Polo ultimately fell to Suffield 14-13 on Wednesday.
Mathis Weber ’20 said, “We started off the third quarter with a lot of energy and we were running them down. They were a small team and they got pretty tired pretty fast. We ran them down and scored two goals in two minutes. The only problem was that we weren't able to keep that lead because [their player] came back and shot.”
Nico Madrid ’20 said, “Everyone rose to the occasion and everyone had their moment where they scored a goal in a clutch situation, tying up the game — that happened multiple times.”
Both teams entered the game with the same record. Knowing this, Andover went into the game with high intensity, according to Zach Hooven ’22.
“They had a really similar playing style to us and they were very similar to us in skill, so we knew from the beginning that the game was going to be very close… It didn't go in our favor but with a team like that, you have to defend them well. They have a couple of strong players you have to keep an eye on and have to be able to dominate against them offensively,” said Hooven.
Offensively, Andover did its best to keep up with Suffield’s scoring, but Suffield’s fast-breaks were difficult to cover, according to Weber. 
“When they actually set up, we were able to [play strong defense], so they didn't score that much when they were set up. The only time they actually scored on us was during the fast breaks,” said Weber. 
Against Suffield, Andover’s starting line played for the entirety of the game. In the weeks to come, Andover hopes to expand its roster of versatile players and work on those players’ positioning in the pool, according to Sean Meng ’22 and Hooven.
“I think we need to keep doing some position work. The starting line up is pretty much set, with their abilities we can make it to the playoffs, but with some of the substitutes like myself, we're still working on specific positioning, training ourselves so that if something does happen, or a player gets tired during the playoffs, we are able to come in and replace them,” said Meng.
“We could've functioned better as a whole unit and I think part of it was that we were really tiring out our starting guys; they had a lot of work to do and I think they were lacking in conditioning,” said Hooven. 
Andover will play St. John’s Prep at home this Friday. 
Editor’s Note: Sean Meng is a Business Associate for The Phillipian.
EOFCXLII
________________
TRANSCRIPTIONS 
Zach Hooven ’22 
It was just a really close game all and all, so it doesn’t really boils down to one thing, but overall we could've played better, we could've functioned better as a whole unit and I think part of it was that we were really tiring out our starting guys; they had a lot of work to do and I think they were lacking in conditioning. 
I thought, offensively, we did very well but, defensively, there are some things we could work on. Even though we had a lot of stops, I thought we did a really good job with ball movement, creating shots, running fast breaks in the water, moving and playing as a team. 
They had a really similar playing style to us and they were very similar to us in skill, so we know from the beginning that the game was going to be very close. We went in with the mentality of being intense from the start and, unfortunately, it didn't work out. It didn't go in our favor but, with a team like that, you have to defend them well. They have a couple of strong players you have to keep an eye on and have to be able to dominate against them offensively. 
Our strengths included our fast breaks, ball-handling, possession, as well as outside shooting. We actually did a lot of that in today's game. 
In the coming week or two we'll probably be working a lot on our defense. 
Sean Meng ’22 
Suffield had a really strong player, #10, and making sure that we were double-teaming him and sloughing off of point was something that we hadn't really practiced before and it is something that we really need to work on. That transition on the defense was a little bit hard for us and we got scored on a lot because of that. I also think that it's been a while since we played a game, so getting back into it was a little tough, but overall I think the team had a great game. 
We were playing a really rough team, Suffield has a really great record, it was the same as ours going into today's game, and so I think that putting our best out there against their best was leveling the playing field. 
One of our biggest focuses, recently, has been focusing on the team dynamic, playing as a team and respecting each other as a team. 
I think we need to keep doing some position work. The starting line up is pretty much set, with their abilities we can make it to the playoffs, but, with some of the substitutes like myself, we're still working on specific positioning, training ourselves so that if something does happen, or a player gets tired during the playoffs, we are able to come in and replace them. 
We had a really great recovery moment in the last quarter, we were down 9-11 and in two incredible plays we were able to get [the score] up to 11-11. That was a huge boost of morale for the team. The way the goals were scored was impressive, Nico had a lob, Max scored off of a rebound and those are just incredible goals. 
Nico Madrid ’20 
We adapted well, we got caught off guard initially at the beginning of the game when one player scored three goals but we were then able to shut him down. Unfortunately, though, it wasn't enough. 
We got caught off guard at the beginning and we managed to keep it close there was no more than a two-goal gap the whole game. They were a pretty good team. 
We've been working on various positioning for each individual person and what their roles are and we did execute that pretty well and we did that in the game but we need to work better as a team. 
We probably will play Suffield again in the playoffs and so we want to beat them and we want to beat Exeter. 
Everyone rose to the occasion and everyone had their moment where they scored a goal in a clutch situation, tying up the game that happened multiple times. 
Mathis Weber ’20 
We played pretty good defense, #10 who was pretty good on their team and he was always playing hole set so probably the best thing we did was crashing him throughout the game. 
We're better than them, we should've won. We missed some of the shots because we weren't really calling switches and we got unlucky with our shooting. We were shooting crossbar every time. 
We started off the third quarter with a lot of energy and we were running them down. They were a small team and they got pretty tired pretty fast. We ran them down and scored two goals in two minutes. The only problem was that we weren't able to keep that lead because #10 came back and shot. 
Crashing was one of the best things we did that game just because on the whole set we were able to talk. I play at the top left for defense and I really tried to stay back because their top players were bad at shooting. So, when they actually set up we were able to get them so they didn't score that much when they were set up. The only time they actually scored on us was during the fast breaks. 
We have a game on Friday against St. John's prep, we kinda killed them last time we played them. We'll see, it'll be good to have a win because the team is a little down because we lost by one and it makes you feel bad. We'll hopefully get a few more subs in because no one subbed in once today. Just looking ahead we have to work and put the focus into practice for the next games. We have Exeter and we really want to beat them because they beat us last time. Focusing during practice as much as possible and put that energy into our games. We need to work on that in the next two weeks!