Singer, Rapper, and Songwriter Cheryl Tugade ’21 Signs With Philippine Record Label 


BOFCXLII
The most famous song by Cheryl Tugade ’21, “Backseat,” which was produced by Filipino music label FlipMusic, has over 100,000 plays on Spotify.
Tugade grew up playing piano and guitar, and started singing and songwriting in the seventh grade. She has since signed with FlipMusic, and has released five singles on Spotify. “Backseat”is featured on Spotify’s “Road Trip” playlist, which has nearly 250,000 followers, and New Music Friday Philippines, which has over 600,000 followers. 
“[When] I started writing songs… I didn't really show them to anyone. And then one day I showed one of the songs I wrote — which I'm actually going to perform at Grasshopper— and then people liked it and from there I was like, ‘ok, maybe I can sing,’” said Tugade. 
Signing with a record label has allowed Tugade to produce music with a more professional and higher quality audio. In addition, Tugade’s work with a producer has allowed her to create more complex sounds behind her vocals, which impressed her friend Martina Gil-Diaz ’21.
“The first song I heard that she made had a rainforest-type background at the beginning, and that's something that you don't really hear in a lot of pop songs... and I [thought], ‘wow, this chick does something cool and different,’” said Gil-Diaz ’21.
According to Tugade, her songs examine the smaller moments in life, but expand on them and explore her feelings during them. Many of her songs also discuss more serious topics, such as mental health.
“There's a song I wrote called ‘Not Alone’ that was nominated for an award in Singapore, but it was actually written for a friend experiencing mental health [issues]. I would say I'm not limited to writing about [mental health], but so far there's definitely [a theme of] being honest and being the self I want in my music forever,” says Tugade.
Tugade’s lyrics are a noticeable feature of her songs, and the fact that she writes all of her songs herself reflects her character, according to her friend Josephine Banson ’22. 
“In the song she just released, ‘Honest,’ she talks about being scared of drawing outside the lines and messing up the colors. That's symbolic where I think it also represents her own mindset and how she's trying to step out of the box,” says Banson.
Although she began her career with rap songs, Tugade has since expanded into the indie-pop genre. According to friend Celestine Gonzales ’21, the feelings her songs invoke in others vary widely depending on the song.
“When she sang at Coffee House, the song was acoustic, so we were all emotional. When she raps in her songs she gets us hyped up. She covers a lot of emotions in her songs,” said Gonzales.
Drawing from her initial reluctance to share her singing and songwriting talents with others, Tugade wants to encourage aspiring songwriters to take the first step of showing their work to the public.
“I guess I'd tell my younger self, who didn't want to show her songs to anyone, to just keep practicing and keep writing terrible songs, but [to not be] be afraid to show them to people and get their feedback and improve. Just don't be afraid to start,” said Tugade.
EOFCXLII












































TRANSCRIPTIONS


Cheryl Tugade ’21:


Why did you decide to start singing in the first place?


I actually never really thought I was good at singing. I started writing songs first when I was in Grade 7 I think, I started writing songs, but I didn't really show them to anyone. And then one day I showed one of the songs I wrote - which I'm actually going to perform at Grasshopper, and then people liked it and from there I was like "ok, maybe I can sing."


Growing up, did you ever play an instrument, or was this really different for you?


I learned how to play the piano and the guitar, but I wasn't good at either, it was more just - like I enjoyed it, but having to practice so much wasn't like my thing. So I think I had a background in music but it wasn't...


Why did you decide to come to Andover? How do you think that has impacted your singing and your musical adventure?


So I decided to go to Andover for the experience and to be challenged, and there's academics, and just having to live on your own and experience boarding school and things like that. For music, I think it's just it's a new audience to perform to as well as there's a lot of talented people here that I've met so far and resources here that I wish I had, like the studios.


Do you usually perform solo or with other people?


I usually perform solo but I've performed with other people before. We had a show at my old school and I performed with a band and there would be other instruments.


You also got signed to a record label, which is super cool. How did that happen?


I heard of this label in the Philippines. They're into becoming more international, as well as - they're good at sound and making things sound professional. I feel like that's what I was missing because if you notice in my first few songs, the audio isn't as clean compared to the new one. So I think it fits what I wanted so I reached out to one of the head producers and I just sent him a demo of my tracks and we just started talking. And then when I went to the Philippines for a holiday I did a short performance for them and they just got back to me.


 Throughout all your songs, are there any themes you try to revisit?


I think I talk a lot about mental health, from different aspects so there's a song I wrote called "Not Alone," that was nominated for an award in Singapore, but it was actually written for a friend. And that was a friend experiencing mental health. And then - I would say I'm not limited to writing about that, but so far there's definitely being honest and being myself I want in my music forever.


Looking towards the future, do you think you're going to continue songwriting?


My dream is to become a music artist for a living, but it's I'm obviously realistic, so that's why there's a lot of other things to focus on in school and stuff. I'd say my dream is to be able to perform for a living and tour and stuff. Being a music artist would be my dream.


Why do you enjoy writing songs and playing music?


I think for me, writing songs was almost like I did it - out of, like, I needed to do it. When I was in 7th grade, I had a bad day and then I was like then I try to write a song. So I feel like it's always been a way for me to express how I'm feeling.


How do you start writing a song? Like how does the process look for you?


So it depends. Sometimes I start just with chords on the piano or guitar. I can produce music as well, so I will produce a beat or somehthing to help with the rhythm. Sometimes I start from there, but most of the time that's how it starts. I've had times when it starts with lyrics first. I wouldn't say it needs to start from one way for me, but usually playing chords.


Are there any artists you're inspired by in your music?


Oh yeah, for sure. Lauv, Jeremy Zucker, Chelsea Cutler. Their whole pop is really - I love the sound, first of all, it's chill but it's still upbeat in a way. They're also really honest in their music and it just comes across as really genuine normal people. That's kind of what I want to do and I'm working on for my music. 


What makes a good song? And what makes a bad song - like have you ever written a song where you're like - "this sucks"?


I've written so many terrible songs. That's one thing. Before I started showing people my songs, I wrote so many really terrible songs. I think it depends what you're looking for though. You could dislike a song, but it's still a well-made song. So I think what makes a good song is it's engaging, it tells a clear story, and the melodies are really polished - there are no lyrics where it's like "oh, you could've used a better word." I think that's what makes a good song. It doesn't really matter what it's about - that's more about what you're into and what kind of music you like. I think there's a well-made song and then there's a song is not really clear, you're not really interested in and you stop listening through it. But it depends on how you define what's a good song.


How would you describe your style of music? Do you think the music you listen to is similar to the music that you make?


The first song I released is a rap song. I've released another rap song after that, and then I've written rap songs as well, but then now I'm more trying to write in the pop-indie genre. 


I started with that kind of genre, and now I'm going into more pop. I think there's definitely not a set thing. For the future, I'm definitely working on what I'm working on now. 


I feel like a listen to so much [music]. There's no limit to the genres I listen to. The music that I'm writing now is definitely what I like - that is definitely my favorite type of music to listen to. But just because I listen to so many genres so it doesn't completely match.




Back to the record label thing, when you first got signed to the label how did that feel?




I just felt really proud, because before that point I was not sure how to take it further and how to improve and have a bigger audience as well. Because in the Philippines, that label has more connections in terms of getting my music out there. So I think definitely I was wondering how to take it further and so once I had signed with them I felt like this was a level up in my music career.


If you had one piece of advice to give to someone who's an aspiring musician, what would that be?


I still think I'm an aspiring musician, but it would be to start. I guess I'd tell my younger self who didn't want to show their songs to anyone to just keep practicing and keep writing terrible songs but don't' be afraid to show them to people and get their feedback and improve. Just don't be afraid to start. 




Martina Gil-Diaz ’21:


What do you think her music/style of music reflects about her personality?


Her music is very relaxing. The background of her music is really interesting. I know she works with a producer to do the background so it's not her really playing the instruments, it's kind of techno in the background. Her singing is really chill and her lyrics are like poetry. They're super pretty and very metaphorical and they're not super cliche.


What do you like about the music that she makes?


The first song I heard that she made had a rainforest-type background at the beginning, and that's something that you don't really hear in a lot of pop songs, but the song ended up having the same type of style as a pop song. And there were also big drums. Not like band drums, but like actual drums in this song, and I was like "wow, this chick does something cool and different."


How would you describe her music?


I feel relaxed, or... A lot of her songs are very relatable. They're written by a girl my age, so that's probably why, but I listen to her music in the shower a lot, just because it's chill, it's not super hyped or boring. I guess it just relaxes me.




What was seeing her perform like? First impressions? Was it diff than what you expected?


Yes, she raps. And I was not expecting that. She also wrote the rap, which is even more impressive to me. Her type of music is just really different from what I listen to, so I guess that's something that stuck with me, that her lyrics are different.


How is she inspired by her music?


A lot of her songs are about small moments. She just released a song called "Backseat," and it kind of described her thoughts as she sat in the backseat of a car. It describes the scenario - it's rainy, and she' just going through her own thoughts. A lot of her songs are just about small moments and about her own thoughts.








Josephine Banson ’22:


Have long you have you known Sheryl?
I've gotten to know her just this year through soccer.


What do you like about the music like the type and style of music that she creates and writes?
Yeah, I really like the vibe to it. I was talking to her about the types of music that she was listening to and she was telling me about some of the artists that she basss? like her music __?_ and we're both really big fans of Chelsea Culter and Jeremy Zucker and I found that her music shares a lot of similarities with those artists, and I really enjoy just the overall vibe to it.


Before you met her, did you know her? Did you reach out to her before you met in person with her at Andover?
No, I did not.


What does her music reflect about her persona and her overall personality?
I think that since she writes all of her songs, what she says kinda reflects part of her character. So actually in the song she just released, “Honest,” she talks about being scared of drawing outside the lines and messing up the colors. And that's symbolic where I think it also represents her own mindset and how she's trying to step out of the box. And that shows how she likes to portray herself artistically.


How would you describe her music?
I'm actually not so sure coz I'm just not that well-immersed in the different genres of music that I don't know exactly where it fits in yeah so idk how to answer that question


How do you feel when you hear her music?
I feel like it's actually quite calming and I think that it's also just like a nice screw to it so like I find myself nodding along and enjoying the rhythm.


What sets her apart from other musicians?
I think that her originality in some of her lyrics, and also just the different types of - the way that - yeah I think the lyrics mainly set her apart. I find that it's really artistic in the way she says it just really flows. yeah


What do you think is cool or interesting about her music or how she produces the music
(like her songwriting process)? Or her song as a whole?
I'm not actually so sure. I think I like the build-up of it. Most of her songs start off fairly chill but it also gets more groovy towards the middle of it and I think that's really cool. 


Have you ever heard her perform before?
Yeah I heard her perform at the coffee house


What were your first impressions about that?
The chorus, when she was singing in there, it sounded really cool. I forgot exactly what she said, but I remember I just really enjoyed listening to the lyrics and yeah. 


Thank you so much.
Yeah I'm actually sorry cuz I only listened to her music but I haven't really like listened to all of it so I don't really how to answer the question.