Boys Soccer Evens Record with Win Against St. Pauls, Needs to Maintain .500 Record to Make Playoffs
BOFCXLII
Receiving a pass from Alex Fung ’21, Will Godbout ’20 launched the ball towards the bottom-right corner of the goal to help bring the team to 3-1 win over St. Paul’s last Saturday.
According to Godbout, the team’s offensive success is partially the result of Head Coach Edwin Escobar’s emphasis on working as a team in practice, which the team was able to successfully implement in its game on Saturday. Jed Heald ’20 and Alan Fang ’21 also praised the team’s improvement in regards to its ball possession and execution over the season, citing them as key contributors in its success against St. Paul’s.
Fang said, “The team did a really good job controlling the game, moving the ball around and keeping the ball. We have come a long way from where we were at the start of the season. The chemistry was amazing and we all feel like a family. We possess the ball well and we move up and down the pitch together.”
Heald added, “The team’s ability to capitalize on chances has gotten better over the past few games and we are able to convert even when our chances are limited. Through our last few games, we have been working on controlling the pace of play and constant communication throughout.”
In addition to the goal scored by Godbout, the team’s other two goals were both scored by Tade Omoniwa ’21.
Godbout said, “Tade stood out for sure. He scored two goals, both of which were great goals. Our defense as a whole also played great. Also, [Heald’s] efforts in goal were great.”
The team split its two contests this week with a 4-0 loss against High Mowing, moving its record to 4-4-0.
According to Ethan Hong ’22, Godbout was particularly successful in runs down the line, beating many of the opposing defensive players and was able to cross the ball well. The team was challenged by High Mowing’s size and the pressure it put on the ball, according to Co-Captain David Wang ’20.
Wang said, “What was challenging was [that] the other team was a team that liked to pressure the ball quickly. As they had size on us also, it only made it much harder. I hope to improve on our communication and awareness whenever our team had the ball. I learned that we should come into every game with a good mindset, as that is very important.”
To ensure the success of its upcoming games, the team needs to work playing quicker and maintaining a high level of confidence, according to Fang.
Fang said, “We can learn to play quicker, we have to believe in ourselves and our teammates and trust each other with the ball. We have to try and keep our cool with the ball instead of sending it up the pitch. We all train extremely hard on a daily basis and we always put 100% into practices no matter how tired we are after school. Soccer means a lot to all of us and we know we have to practice hard to perform well.”
The team will face Northfield Mount Hermon at home this Saturday on Smoyer Field.
EOFCXLII
 




________________


TRANSCRIPTIONS:




Jed Heald ‘20
 
The team has been vibing over the past few games and have improved drastically from the start of the season and we are playing some of our best soccer yet. Our team has had some obstacles with injuries and a tough schedule to begin the season, but we have done an excellent job thus far and look to build on this strong start. [a]


The team’s ability to capitalize on chances has gotten better over the past few games and we are able to convert even when our chances are limited. Through our last few games, we have been working on controlling the pace of play and constant communication throughout. 


Ethan Hong sauced a cross into the box for Tade, allowing us to score our first goal in the St. Paul’s game to set the tone and lead us to a 3-1 win.
 
Ethan Hong ‘22
 
The dynamic was very good on Saturday but was not as good today because today was not a real game. I think that our mood and dynamic depended on our situation in terms of which game we play.
 
I think being positive is very hard for us because of the difference in skill level on the team. Many people are very negative towards each toe he
 
I think the subs give us a lot of energy when they come in, they provide us with a boost of energy.
 
I think we have learned that we just need to play our game every game no matter who we play I crossed it and the defender headed up and then Tade got the rebound and scored of a volley to make the score 3-1 to seal the game
 
For today, Will had many nice runs down the line and beat many players and crossed the ball[b]
 
Alan Fang ‘21
 
The team did a really good job controlling the game, moving the ball around and keeping the ball. We have come a long way from where we were at the start of the season. The chemistry was amazing and we all feel like a family. We possess the ball well and we move up and down the pitch together. 
 
We can learn to play quicker, we have to believe in ourselves and our teammates and trust each other with the ball. We have to try and keep our cool with the ball instead of sending it up the pitch. We all train on a daily basis extremely hard and we always put 100% practices no matter how tired we are after school. Soccer means a lot to all of us and we know we have to practice hard to perform well.




Will Godbout ’20


What do you think the team did well against St. Paul’s?
I think that we were moving the ball well, and we were able to finish the game. We also started the game off really strong which was a huge help. Our passing was very accurate and our defense was shut down.


What do you think contributed to the team’s success against St. Paul’s?
Coach Wade had a nice little speech at the beginning of the game, we remembered how they had beaten us last year, and everyone’s head was in the game. The effort from both the starters and the bench was fantastic and our energy helped a lot.


Who stood out in the game and why?
Tade stood out for sure. He scored 2 goals, both of which were great goals. Our defense as a whole also played great. Also, Jeds efforts in goal were great. 


How did the team work well together?
We worked hard on both offense and defense.


And would you mind talking about your goal and how it happened (you can self hype here)
I honestly can’t remember who passed it to me but you could prob find out who by asking someone. But the ball came through the defense and I ran ahead, beat the first defender to the ball, then took in touch inside towards the goal and shot it. The shot was a hard, low shot and it hit the inside of the post and went in.


ABOUT HIS OWN GOAL Also, add that coach esco has been making us work a lot on working as a team in practice and it has been paying off
[a]good
[b]fine