Tang Theater Receives First Significant Renovation Since 1992
BOFCXLII
For the past three months, ongoing renovations to Tang Theatre have upgraded its lighting system, overhead rigging, curtains, and sound setup. The electrical wiring inside the walls has also been replaced. According to Bradford Seymour, Instructor and Technical Director of Theatre and Dance, the theater was starting to show signs of age and was in need of a refresh.
“The [reason why we began renovations] was that the safety and systems were starting to fail. The sound and lighting systems were patched together and starting to become fairly expensive to maintain… Now, the lighting and sound systems are actually tied in with the emergency building systems. For example, if the fire alarm goes off, if there's audio playing, that cuts out, so people can hear [the alarm], and the lights come on automatically,” said Seymour. 
The new renovations will increase the efficiency of the system as a whole. Myles Ringel ’21, Tech Crew Member, expressed his appreciation for the convenience that the new features will bring. 
“Our old curtain was very finicky, it wouldn’t go down all the way, so during performances the stage technician would have to run across and pull down all the weights to make sure the audience couldn’t see the feet of the actors and technicians as they were changing scenes,” said Ringel. 
The renovations are set to be finished before Tang Theatre’s first major show of the year, Grasshopper Night. Seymour thinks that the new features will help Grasshopper, in particular, run more smoothly. 
“For Grasshopper Night, I think it's going to be faster to program. Whoever is working with the lights is going to have more options. They're going to be able to pick color for different scenes in a much better way,” said Seymour. “They have millions of different colors.”
In addition to the increase in efficiency, the new system aims to reduce electricity usage and associated costs. The lighting systems changed from an incandescent based infrastructure to a new set of L.E.D. bulbs.
“The fixtures were 27 years old and were outdated based on where the technology is, but also using a lot more electricity than they needed to be to get that level of light… We don't need as many lights up in the air because they change color now. They didn't do that before. So we needed to use filters to change the color,” said Seymour.
Ringel said, “I’m really excited for the new technology. It’s going to be a huge help to the whole space. I think the thing that will make the biggest change is the new array of lights. With the old array of lights, each light could only have one color, and it only has on and off. With these new L.E.D. lights, you have the whole entire R.G.B. spectrum and anywhere in between.”
EOFCXLII
















What part of the renovation are you most excited about?


I'm actually really excited that we're just bringing the entire theater up to both modern standards in terms of lighting and audio, and also the rigging. It's going to be a lot safer for the theater to operate and much more efficient.


Why was the rigging unsafe?


The rigging that was there was from when the theater was renovated in 1990 [FACT CHECK: 1992], when all of George Washington [Hall] was renovated. It was an older style and the standards have really changed. Now, the overhead stuff has much more redundancy built in, so there's not a single failure point, whereas before, there was. It was the sort of thing where it was really unlikely that we'd have a problem, but if you do have something go wrong, it could go really catastrophic quickly. So now it's a much safer system.


Describe the new lighting system?


At the base level, the lighting system we have now is LED-based. Before, it was incandescent-based. The fixtures were 27 years old and were outdated based on where the technology is, but also using a lot more electricity than they needed to be to get that level of light, in a couple of ways – each of them was either 750 or 1000 watts, now each light is under 200. We don't need as many lights up in the air because they change color now. They didn't do that before. So we needed to use filters to change the color. The other advantages that we have is that the system that allowed those lights to dim to different levels was starting to fail, just because it was electronics and it's 25 years old.


What kind of advantages does the renovation to lighting bring to Tang's first major event, Grasshopper?


For Grasshopper Night, I think it's going to be faster to program. Whoever's working with the lights is going to have more options. They're going to be able to pick color for different scenes in a much better way. They have millions of different colors that they can make those lights. They can pick from those rather than needing to just rely on whatever color that light happens to be. 


Why did the department decide to do renovations this year?


I think the thing that started it was that the safety and systems that were starting to fail. The sound and lighting systems were patched together and starting to become fairly expensive to maintain. I think that sort of got the ball rolling and getting people on board with the idea that we needed to do this. Some of the other safety things are that now, the lighting and sound systems are actually tied in with the emergency building systems. For example, if the fire alarm goes off, if there's audio playing, that cuts out, so people can hear it, and the lights come on automatically. So, we don't train somebody to that; it just happens, which is really now a code requirement. So some of that was bringing it up to code as well.


Where did the department get the funds for the renovation?


I'm not sure; I know that OPP has a number of large capital projects that they do every year and this was one of them. General OPP building improvement. It would be the same thing as if they were putting new lights up at the football field. That's sort of like large projects beyond simple maintenance. It doesn't mean that we don't have as much money to do a show this year.


The entire sound system was replaced. Basically almost every single component is new. I don't even think they used existing wiring. There are some pieces that we're going to keep that were standalone pieces, but not major components. All the speakers, all the wireless microphones – which we also needed to do because we had wireless microphones that were not in compliance with FCC frequency regulations. 


THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN CHANGED:
Lighting system (excluding follow spotlights)
Overhead rigging
Curtains, inherently fire retardant
Entire sound system














Myles Ringel ’21


When did the renovations start and how long is it going to last?
The renovation started at the very end of last year and by renovations they didn’t really change much architecturally about the space, it was more about all the technology, but it does make a huge difference to the theater productions moving forward. They changed up the technology they had from the seventies, eighties, and nineties and replaced it with newer stuff from 2017-2018.


When is it supposed to be done?
[The renovations] are pretty much done. I’m not sure when the space opens but all the bars that the lights hang from are done, the curtain I believe is in, and it’s just sort of a matter of getting the space set up.


You mentioned technology, could you list out all the things that have been changed?
The first huge thing that we did was we changed all the old Altman’s, which is a company that makes lights and is a huge company from the 80s and 90s, and they were non LED ellipsoidal light bulbs which we had a bunch of. We got rid of all of those and I believe that we donated them to public schools in the area. Those were all run by dimmer packs which turns on and off all the lights during a show. We basically had a whole room full of those that were thirty or forty years old and we got rid of all those dimmer packs because we got rid of all the Altman ellipsoidals and replaced them with ATC colorsource spots. These colorsource spots are all LEDs so we no longer have any dimmer packs, we just use switchboard breakers which is really nice because it frees up some space for us and we don’t have these huge things that are overheating constantly.


We got new floodlights, which are all LEDs as well. We replaced all the electrics which are the big bars that the lights are suspended on, which is nice because the system that made our old ones go up and down was really clunky and this one is a lot more elegant and it goes more smoothly. On top of that we replaced the fly system which is how we get scenery in and out of the theater, and we have all new ropes and pulleys, and that just needed a big upgraded. Also, we have a new curtain. Our old curtain was very finicky, it wouldn’t go down all the way, so during performances the stage technician would have to run across and pull down all the weights to make sure the audience couldn’t see the feet of the actors and technicians as they were changing scenes.


What are you most excited for? What will make the biggest change?
I’m really excited for the new technology. It’s going to be a huge help to the whole space. I think the thing that will make the biggest change is the new array of lights. With the old array of lights, each light could only have one color, and it only has on and off. With these new LED lights, you have the whole entire RGB spectrum and anywhere in between. You again have on and off, but you also have strobing and effects so you can have multiple lights come in in succession or in a pattern. It’s just a stuff that we can do a lot more than we could do previously which hopefully will make for more interesting shows and help the story of the show go further.