BOFCXLII
Receiving a cross from Daniel Cho ’21, Co-Captain David Wang ’20 launched the ball past the keeper into the net, scoring the winning goal and leading Andover Boys Soccer to a 2-1 victory over Milton on Wednesday. 
Last Saturday, Andover fell 3-0 to Belmont Hill, putting the team’s record at 1-2 for the season.
According to Adam Hassanein ’22 and Alan Fang ’21, the game against Belmont Hill was hard-fought and demonstrated a solid effort by the team, especially on the defensive end. 
Fang said, “I think we did a really good job defensively for the majority of the game. For the first seventy minutes we were organized. We communicated well and supported everyone well.”
“We had a great work rate. We defended really well for the majority of the game,” added Hassanein.
Hassanein continued, “The goals they scored on us were just small mistakes that we made. Overall, the score didn’t really reflect the outcome of the game.”
Due to the absence of starting goalie Kion Young ’20, former JV2 goalie Phineas Walsh ’21 played for the first time as Varsity goalie and met the challenge well, according to Fang.
Fang said, “Phineas had to step up and that was his first time playing in goal for us, so this was his first real test and I think that he did a good job in goal.”
Against Milton, one of Andover’s historically more challenging opponents, the team maintained a focused mindset throughout the game, despite making some errors, according to Ethan Hong ’22.
“I think we did really well with spirit and intensity. I think we could work on bringing the same energy we brought to this game,” said Hong. “I think we could work on definitely making safer passes and less risky passes.”
According to Fang, between the games, the team had a series of intense practices and team bonding activities to aid the initiation of the season. These team activities were designed to help the team connect and find their chemistry on the field.
“Our coach had us do this activity where we had one person that we would support throughout the day and during today’s practice he would ask us who our person was and if you couldn’t guess it correctly we had to run laps so that was part of some team bonding,” Fang said.
“I think we’re in a good place right now, we’re definitely improving after each practice. I feel like we just need to put it all together, just get some offense going and we’ll be good to go going into our game Wednesday,” added Hassanein.
Moving towards the next game, Fang added that the team needs to work on keeping the intensity levels up. 
“I think we should work on maintaining the level of intensity throughout the game because we dropped off toward the end. That’s when we started conceding,” said Fang.
Next Wednesday, Andover will face Holderness away.
EOFCXLII
TRANSCRIPTION:
 
Game 9/14 vs. Belmont Hill: Loss 3-0
 
Adam Hassanein ‘22:
“We dominated the game in my opinion. We had a great work rate. We defended really well for the majority of the game. The goals they scored on us were just small mistakes that we made. Overall, the score didn’t really reflect the outcome of the game.”
 
“We could work on the team chemistry and working together. I think we’re in a good place right now, we’re definitely improving after each practice. I feel like we just need to put it all together, just get some offense going and we’ll be good to go going into our game Wednesday.”
 
“It was a good team effort.”
 
“We had some high intensity practices and making sure that we were simulating game-like experiences.”
 
“I feel like we have a really good group of players. I think we’re all very optimistic about how the season will end up being as long as we put in the work and put in the time I think we’ll go very far.”
 
Alan Fang ‘21:
“I think we did a really good job defensively for the majority of the game. For the first seventy minutes we were organized. We communicated well and supported everyone well. Our coach had us do this activity where we had one person that we would support throughout the day and during today’s practice he would ask us who our person was and if you couldn’t guess it correctly we had to run laps so that was part of some team bonding.”
 
“I think we should work on maintaining the level of intensity throughout the game because we dropped off toward the end that’s when we started conceding. I think along with that is fitness.”
 
“I think Phineas did a good job because Kion was away, he’s our normal starting goalie but he was away for the game so Phineas had to step up and that was his first time playing in goal for us. He played JV2 last year so this was his first real test and I think that he did a good job in goal.”
 
“We just worked on keeping the level of intensity high because the practice before Wednesday’s game was not great and Thursday and Friday we just had a really high intensity practice. It was more or less the same thing we did small sided games, we just played a lot, but the main thing we focused on was how hard everyone was working.”
 
“It’s a rough start but we’re getting better. We improved a lot from Wednesday’s game and it’s only going to get better from here so we’ll see how it goes.”
 
Game 9/18 vs. Milton Academy: Win 2-1
 
Ethan Hong ‘22:
“There was a really good play for the second goal. Daniel Cho was dribbling down the line, he made a nice move and he crossed it to David Wang who scored. That was probably the best highlight of the game.”
 
“I think we did really well with spirit and intensity. I think we believed all the way through that we could win and we executed on that. I think we could work on definitely making safer passes and less risky passes. Things like that.”
 
“I think we could work on bringing the same energy we brought to this game.”